record date: 2064-02-16	cardiology		gretna countyhiropractic center		reason for visit:   s/p pfo closure using a 25 mm crybiform amplatzer device on 12/05/63	interval history:   it is a pleasure seeing mrs. xuereb in f/u s/p her pfo closure on 12/05/63 using a 25 mm crybiform amplatzer device.  her history is also signigicant for s/p stemi the morning after arthroscopic shoulder surgery for adhesive capsulitis in 10/63, protein s deficiency, copd, htn and dyslipidemia. she is doing well from the cardiac perspective-reporting that her pac's have decreased in intensity and occurance-now happening 2-3x/day, and denies any further neurological events. she does, however, c/o a constant ha (feels as though her head is in a 'vice'), did not have pre-procedure. she does have a hx. of migraines, and reports that she has not had one since her closure. she is using tylenol w/ good relief.  thinks it is d/t the toprol xl.  	past medical history:   1. cad-s/p imi following shoulder surgery with evidence of acute thrombotic occlusion of her rca; no other atherosclerotic lesions identified.  ? paradoxical emboli.  s/p thrombectomy with export catheter - 10/04/20632. pfo with large right to left shunting3. protein s deficiency (? secondary to estrogen replacement)4. adhesive capsulitis r shoulder; s/p arthroscopic surgical repair 10/3/20635. may thurner syndrome- seen by dr. jones - no intervention needed6. gerd7. dyslipidemia8. htn9.  dm2 (diet controlled) - hgba1c elevated for about 3 yrs10. s/p partial hysterectomy11. h/o small bowel obstruction12. copdallergies: augmentin - rash	medications (confirmed):	advair hfa aspirin chantix  po bidcoumadin lipitor  40 mg dailyprilosec  po dailytoprol xl  25 mg dailyventolin hfa  prn	family history:   mother: died at 72 - colon cafather: died at 82 - ? pna. hx of dm, copdsiblings: 12 siblings - all alive and well	social history:   divorced.  3 grown children. works at calista co., veterinarian for exotic animals.tobacco: 40 pack yr hx, quit before shoulder surgery-taking chantixetoh: noneexercise: no formal exercisediet: no particular dietcaffeine: 2 cups/day	review of systems:   no lightheadedness, dizziness, presyncope or syncope. no hx of tia/cva/migraines/seizuresphysical examination:	-bmi: 24.4  normal, low risk-pulse: 66  nsr-height: 68  in.-weight: 160  lbs.-general:   healthy, in nad-neck:   supple.  jvp &lt;5cm.  carotids 2+ with good upstroke and no bruits.-chest:   lungs are clear to auscultation anteriorly-cardiac:   apical impulse is nondisplaced.  rate and rhythm regular.  s1 s2 without murmur/rub/gallop.-abdomen:   normal bowel sounds.  nontender.  no hepatosplenomegaly or aortic enlargement appreciated.-extremities:   le: warm, dry, no edema-bp: 112/72  mmhg	ekg:   nsr-66bpm.  	other data:   1/26/64-tte:mitral valve there is no evidence of mitral valve prolapse. there is mild mitral regurgitation by color and spectral doppler. left atrium there is no evidence of left atrial dilatation. aortic valve, aorta, lvot there is no evidence of valvular aortic stenosis. the aortic valve is tricuspid. there is no evidence of aortic insufficiency by color or spectral doppler. left ventricle the left ventricular cavity size is normal. the left ventricular systolic function is within normal limits. there are no obvious segmental wall motion abnormalities. there is a false tendon within the lv cavity which is a normal variant. the estimated ejection fraction is 65 %. tricuspid valve - ivc, svc there is color and spectral doppler evidence of mild tricuspid insufficiency. pulmonary valve, infund., p.a. there is evidence of trace pulmonary insufficiency by color and spectral doppler. the rv systolic pressure was estimated from the regurgitant tricuspid velocity (assuming an ra pressure of 10mmhg). the estimated rv systolic pressure is 33 mmhg. right ventricle the right ventricle is not dilated. the right ventricular systolic function is within normal limits. interatrial septum, interventricular septum there are increased echoes along the interatrial septum c/w a closure device. the appearance of the device is most c/w an amplatzer device. there is evidence of a patent foramen ovale by agitated saline contrast after valsalva maneuver. pericardial disease and extracardiac masses there is no evidence of pericardial effusion. conclusions compared to the report of 12/06/2063, there is residual shunt with the valsalva manuever. 	assessment and plan:   in summary, xian is a 56-year-old female s/p myocardial infarction, likely the result of paradoxical emboli via a large pfo, and s/p closure of her pfo on 12/05/63 using a 25 mm crybiform amplatzer device.  she is doing well from the cardiac perspective, and denies any further neurological events.  upon our review of the echocardiogram there is a trace shunt across the device (7 beats, only after valsalva) consistent w/ intra-pulmonary shunting.  we are willing to try decreasing her toprol xl to 12.5mg qd, in an attempt to alleviate her ha's.  if this proves unsucessful, we will trial a course of atenolol.  we agree with continuation of her asa therapy and will see her in f/u for her 6 month appointment in june w/ an echo w/ bubbles.  changes to medications this visit	coumadin     as directed end: 2/19/2064 held for cath lab - inactivatedadvair hfa 250   bidtoprol xl 12.5 mg   dailyaspirin 325 mg   daily	floyd fong, md pager #81895	transcribed by: clara d quilici	cc: paulette yancy (pcp)	signed electronically by  floyd fong, mddocument status: final