435723122 | pemh | 91480974 | | 161101 | 10/24/1992 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/3/1992 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/24/1992discharge diagnosis: 1 ) degenerative joint disease , right ankle( right tibiotalar joint ) secondary totraumatic arthritis.2 ) insulin dependent diabetes.3 ) hypertension.operations and procedures: tibiotalar fusion with cross-cannulatedao screws times three and local bonegraft performed 1/10/92 by dr. tim fajenhistory of present illness: this 44 year old phys. ed. teacher hada long history of ankle pain on theright side. he had a fracture as a child which was fixed with anopen reduction and internal fixation. he sustained a second anklefracture a number of years later when he fell off a ladder andrefractured his ankle. currently , he has pain on all movements ofthe ankle while walking and performing any activity. the pain isprimarily in the ankle joint but also in his mid foot. he has beencontrolling his pain with darvocet as well as intramuscular tordal15 to 30 mg four times a day. he denies any other jointinvolvement and he denies any motor or sensory changes. pastmedical history: significant for insulin dependent diabetescurrently managed with 32 units of nph humulin. he also has ahistory significant for hypertension. he denies bowel or bladderdysfunction , he denies coronary artery disease , dysrrhythmia , ormurmur , he denies peptic ulcer disease , and he denies thyroid glandabnormality. past surgical history: significant for fracturetimes two of his right ankle status post open reduction andinternal fixation first time in 1965 and second time in 1988 , hehad herniorrhaphy in 1978 , he had drainage of a right thumb abscessin 1988 , and he has had septicemia treated at vensperdon hospital infebruary and september of 1991. current medications: nph insulin32 units every morning , procardia xl 90 mg q.a.m. , lotensin 40 mgp.o. q.d. , lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d. , potassium supplement , and thenketorolac 15-30 mg intramuscularly q.i.d. , and darvocet n-100 oneto four tablets q.d. allergies: he has no known drug allergies.he denies smoking history and he denies ethanol abuse. review ofsystems: negative for dyspnea on exertion , shortness of breath ,palpitations , or anginal like symptoms. he does get bilateral legedema. he has not had any evidence of neuropathy , retinopathy , ornephropathies associated with his diabetes.physical examination: well-developed 44 year old male who appearsstated age. heent: demonstrated pupils tobe equal and reactive , extraocular muscles intact , and oropharynxwas clear. neck: supple with full painless range of motion andthere was no goiter , adenopathy , or jugular venous distention.lungs: clear to auscultation. cardiac: demonstrated a regularrate and rhythm without significant murmur , rub , or thrill.abdomen: soft , non-obese , and non-tender without evidence ofhepatosplenomegaly. orthopedic: demonstrated that he hadapproximately 10 degrees of dorsiflexion , 10 degrees of plantarflexion with very limited subtalar motion , good mid foot motion butwith some pain on motion of the mid foot. there was pain duringmovement of his tibiotalar joint. specifically , there was littlepain with motion of the subtalar joint or the mid foot. he hadgood dorsalis pedis and posterior tibialis pulses , he had normalsensation at the first dorsal web space , dorsum , and plantaraspects of the foot , and the hindfoot appeared to be in neutralposition. there did not appear to be any supination or pronationdeformities. he had full painless range of motion at the hip andat the knee on the ipsilateral side.laboratory examination: x-rays demonstrated marked degenerativejoint disease with a complete obliterationof the articular joint space in the lateral half of the joint.there were also some degenerative changes in the mid foot. hispre-operative laboratory evaluation demonstrated ekg with normalsinus rhythm and no evidence of ischemic changes , glucose was 133 ,bun was 35 , creatinine 1.2 , potassium of 4.2 , liver function testswere entirely within normal limits , hematocrit was 42.8 , whiteblood cell count was 9 , and the pt and ptt were 11.6 and 28.2respectively. the patient's urinalysis was entirely clear forbacteria and negative for glucose and ketones.hospital course: the patient was admitted as a same day surgerycandidate with traumatic arthritis at the righttibiotalar joint and he underwent tibiotalar fusion withcross-cannulated ao screws and local bone graft. the procedureinvolved partial fibulectomy as well as a partial osteotomy of themedial malleolus. the position of the ankle at the end of theprocedure was neutral dorsiflexion , plantar flexion , and neutralvarus/valgus. he had a general endotracheal anesthetic for failedsciatic nerve block , estimated blood loss was 200 cc , and totaltourniquet time was 1 hour and 57 minutes. he received 2500 cc ofcrystalloid intraoperatively and he tolerated the procedure well.post-operatively , his motor and sensory examinations were intactwith regard to deep and superficial peroneal and posterior tibialisnerves. his hemovac put out a total of 150 cc and was removed onpost-operative day number one. he initially was kept in aposterior splint with anterior wings. this was changed onpost-operative day two. the wound appeared to be clean and dry andhe was placed in a short-leg fiberglass cast since there was littleswelling apparent. he had an x-ray after placement of the cast andthe position of the ankle looked to be in neutral position andneutral varus/valgus. he was cleared by physical therapyambulatory , non-weight bearing , with use of crutches. he did nothave any difficulties with the cast , no significant swelling , andwas discharged on post-operative day three. the patient did havesome elevated temperatures which were attributed to atelectasis andwas encouraged to cough and deep breath.disposition: patient will follow-up with dr. norman dutko inapproximately three weeks at which time the cast willbe changed and stitches removed. discharge medications: themedications that he was admitted on with the addition of vicodanone to two p.o. q.3-4h. p.r.n. , naprosyn 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. as asubstitute for the tordal , and halcion 0.125 to 0.25 mg p.o. q.h.s.p.r.n.oa240/6033issac b. cheairs , m.d. td01 d: 1/24/92batch: 1172 report: s8103u9 t: 2/1/92dictated by: