453987708 | bah | 11946172 | | 4255721 | 8/15/2005 12:00:00 am | right foot gangrene | signed | dis | admission date: 8/5/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 4/7/2005attending: kegler , olen esteban mddate of discharge:unknown.chief complaint:gangrenous fourth right toe with necrotic right great toe ulcerand right forefoot cellulitis.history of present illness:mr. maixner is a 57-year-old male with a history of a poor medicalfollow up smoking and untreated diabetes mellitus who first notedblisters on the tip of his right fourth toe and under medialright great toe from ill-fitting tissues approximately a yearprior to his admission. both ulcers have been nonhealing andcyclically formed dark eschars and superficial scabs which havebeen treated with lotion as recommended by his podiatrist. fiveto six months ago , he traveled to oonperfin rd and spend some time inhot tubs and jacuzzi's but his ulcers continued to form escharswithout healing completely and also episodically becameerythematous and painful with involvement of the forefoot. eachepisode usually resolved with foot elevation and rest. on8/29/05 , after long walks , he noticed that the right fourth toeturned to a dark purple color , was malodorous. he had pain withweightbearing and was obliged to heel walk. over the nextseveral days , the forefoot became erythematosus and swollen aswell. he denied any fevers , chills , nausea , vomiting , cough ,headache , although he had an episode of malaise and chills thatlasted three days several weeks prior to his admission. hisappetite had been stable. he had not had any recent weightchange. functionally , he was doing well. ambulation was limitedonly by foot pain. he denied claudication , chest pressure ,dyspnea on exertion. he would sleep on one pillow at night withhead flat. he denied lightheadedness or any presyncopalepisodes. on 5/30/05 , he presented to h medical center forworkup of his painful forefoot and toe ulcers. he was afebrilewith vital signs stable. his right fourth toe was described asblackened with clear demarcation at the metatarsal junction , andeschar was noted on the right first toe. he is white blood cellcount at that stage was 12.7. plain films were notable forsuspicious swelling about the fourth toe with evidence of gasnoted within the soft tissues of the medial aspect of the fourthtoe in the proximal interphalangeal joint. he went on to haveabis that were 0.32 on the right side and 0.43 on the left sideand pvrs were normal at 5 level only. he also underwent acardiac workup that was notable for spect/mibi that showed areversible defect involving the basal , mid and apical segments ofthe anterior wall consistent with myocardial ischemia. an echoshowed an ejection fraction of 45% and possible septalhypokinesis. given the positive stress test and a positive needfor cardiac cath , he was transferred to t.bafnashstin hospital for further management. he did not feel that would havechange in appearance since 1/25 although the pain had increasingintensity. he denied any sensory or motor deficits , but he hadpain whenever he moved his toes or put any weight.past medical history:rheumatoid arthritis since 1980s that was untreated , type iidiabetes mellitus since 1990s that was untreated , multiple bonyinjuries to his right foot , and a football accident as ateenager.past surgical history:bilateral mastoidectomies in 1970s and 1980s , status post penilesurgery at childhood , status post sebaceous cyst removal in 2004.medications on admission:none.allergies:nkda.social history:one to three packs per day for 40 years , quit in 1980 , alcoholicuntil 1993 but had been sober attending aa since then. priorheroin , speed and barbiturate abuse , with history of cocaine ,tranquilizers , marijuana use; has been clean since 1993. he usedto work for a moving company , no disability and lives alone intall all he is single and has no children.physical examination:on admission , temperature 99.6 , heart rate 72 , blood pressure150/86 , respiratory rate 16 , oxygen saturation 99% on room air.general appearance: elderly looking gentleman in no apparentdistress with bilateral hearing aids. heent: no jvp , no carotidbruits. cardiac: regular rate and rhythm. lungs: clear toauscultation bilaterally. birthmark on right upper back.abdomen: mildly distended , soft , nontender , no pulsatile masses.bilateral lower extremity skin hallus with normal color andtemperature down to feet. right forefoot was erythematous andedematous and warm with no fluctuance or crepitus. his plantarsurface was tender to palpation immediately beneath the fourthmetatarsal. his right fourth toe was necrotic and malodorouswith no purulent discharge. his anteromedial aspect of his rightgreat toe had a 0.5 cm round ulcer with dark eschar center anddesiccated edges with mild erythema and induration around it.dorsiflexion was 5/5 and plantar flexion 4-/5 and limited bypain. he had full strength on the left side , normal sensationthroughout both feet. pulses: right carotid 2+ femoraldopplerable , dp dopplerable , pt dopplerable. left carotid 2+femoral , 1+ dp , none pt dopplerable. bedside abis: right side0.43 , left side 0.51. he was admitted with diagnosis of amultilevel arterial insufficiency bilaterally and need for fourthtoe amputation impossible for debridement followed by angio forpossible revascularization.procedures and operations:7/23/05: attending surgeon , leif pinke , m.d. openamputation of right fourth toe.8/17/05: attending surgeon , yong weinrich , m.d. coronaryartery bypass grafting x4 with saphenous vein graft to acutemarginal distal pda , left internal mammary artery to the lad , yleft radial artery from lima to the ramus intermedius to theposterior left ventricular branch of the circumflex.7/23/05: left to right femoral to femoral artery bypass usingan 8 mm dacron graft.9/26/05: attending surgeon , tyree denten , m.d. rightfemoropopliteal bypass grafting and amputation of the right thirdand fifth toe.hospital course:mr. bessard underwent amputation of his fourth toe on the rightside after his admission. he tolerated his procedure well. afew days later , he underwent the previously mentioned coronaryartery bypass grafting; please refer to the previously dictatedsummary , dictation id 8626234 for details. after his coronarybypass grafting , he underwent a femoral-femoral bypass graftingwith debridement of his right toe amputations site. after hisprocedure , he had a weak dorsal pedis , a questionable posteriortibial and normal popliteal signal on doppler but none of hispulses were palpable. his femoral-femoral graft was easilypalpable on his abdomen. due to his poor vascularization of hisright lower extremity , he underwent a femoropopliteal bypassgrafting on the right with a nonreversed saphenous vein graftingfrom the ipsilateral leg and amputation of his right and fifthtoe and closure of his lateral foot. he tolerated this procedurewell. the rest of his hospital course was complicated by aworsening of the left lower extremity perfusion. his left footwas slightly cooler than his right and his doppler signalsfainted. an initial mottle appearance of his left lowerextremity improved with time. on 4/8 , his wounds were dry ,clean and intact. he had a palpable femoral-femoral graft anddopplerable left pt and dp pulses with monophasic signal. bothhis pt and dp on the right are dopplerable as well with biphasicsignal. the same day , his foley catheter was removed and hestarted mobilizing with heel weightbearing on the right and withhelp of physical therapy and the nursing personnel he iscurrently actively screened for rehabilitation.his discharge would be complete. will await this??_____??.escription document: 3-6118602 emsfocus transcriptionistsdictated by: bosh , rickeyattending: feather , beau floyddictation id 9737570d: 10/12/05t: 10/12/05