record date: 2090-10-09name:     usrey, john mrn:       6762675this is a 76-year-old man who comes in with a chief complaint of left calf pain. this occurs after walking about one block and pain is sufficient to prevent himfrom walking further.  he will then stop, pain will disappear.  he will continuewalking at which time it will occur at about the same distance.  there is no restpain.  the pain had been present for a couple of months although it has beenincreasing in severity.   past medical history:  is significant for intracranial bleed secondary to anav malformation.  he refused surgery at that time at campellton-graceville hospital and has donewell on dilantin without any seizures.  there has been no further bleed or problemfrom this malformation.  he also has treated hypothyroidism.  he is status postturp, cholecystectomy, and appendectomy.  he does have a chronic anxietydisorder for which he is on ativan intermittently.  he also has pustular psoriasis.medications:  dilantin 600 mg per day, which keeps his level at about 7.  atthese levels he has had no seizures.  he is also on synthroid at 0.075 per day.  physical examination:  he is a mostly german-speaking man.  there is aright-sided tremor which has been present since his intracranial bleed.  necksupple.  blood pressure is at 140/80.  weight 184.  heart rate is at 70.  there areno carotid bruits.  lungs are clear.  heart is regular without gallop or murmur. abdominal exam - no mass, tenderness, or organomegaly.  there are multiplescars. there is a bruit over the right femoral artery with a decreased pulsation therecompared to the left.  there is no pulse palpable below popliteal on the right side. there is no visible ischemic change of the right leg.  the left femoral is fuller, andthere is a palpable dorsalis pedis on that side.  impression:  peripheral vascular disease, probably right iliofemoral.  he willundergo arteriovascular studies.  he will also be placed on aspirin at 81 mg perday.  in addition he is begun on lipitor 10 mg per day for hyperlipidemia.  he willfollow up following that vascular study.  this evaluation was also communicated toher daughter, quinn, because of the language barrier.xenia jaramillo, m.d.xj/camp/williams