837847756fih229715159410/l96z0725675/28/1992 12:00:00 amleft brachial artery thromboembolism .unsigneddisreport status :unsignedadmission date :5-28-92discharge date :6-4-91principal diagnosis :left brachial artery thromboembolism .secondary diagnoses :include hiatus hernia with barrett &apos;s esophagus , pseudo-gout , and dilated cardiomyopathy with history of intra-atrial thrombus .principal procedure :undergone during this hospital admission was a left brachial artery embolectomy .the patient also underwent upper endoscopy and a left wrist fine needle aspiration .history of present illness :the patient is a 76 year old white male with a probable brachial artery embolism .the patient has a history of cardiomyopathy and atrial fibrillation .he was previously on coumadin because of a prior embolic cerebrovascular accident .the patient had his coumadin discontinued in january 1992 secondary to an upper gastrointestinal bleed .the patient was swimming at 4:00 o &apos;clock this afternoon when he experienced left upper extremity pain and paralysis .he was evaluated at sephsandpot center and referred to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital for evaluation .the patient is righthanded .past medical history :1. cardiomyopathy .2. atrial fibrillation .3. upper gastrointestinal bleed in january of 1992 complicating his coumadin treatment .the coumadin was discontinued .4. cerebrovascular accident in 1988 with a residual aphasia .5. polycythemia vera .past surgical history :is none .medications on admission :isordil , ditropan , cytotec and ecotrin .adverse drug reactions :no known drug allergies .physical examination :( at time of admission ) the systolic blood pressure is 180 , his head and neck examination within normal limits .cardiac :he has a ii out of vi systolic ejection murmur which is loudest at the right upper sternal border .his chest is clear .his abdomen was benign .his rectal examination guaiac negative .of greatest note on his pulse examination :his carotid , femoral , popliteal , dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses are 2 plus both right and left .his subclavian artery and axillary artery pulses are 2 plus bilaterally .his brachial pulse is 2 plus , radial pulse 2 plus and ulnar pulse 2 plus on the right .on the left he has no brachial , no radial and no ulnar pulse .his left hand and arm strength is 4/4 with decreased sensation in the left fingers in the median and ulnar distribution .the impression :a probable brachial artery embolus .the plan is to perform an urgent embolectomy .the risks and benefits have been explained to the patient and consent has been obtained .hospital course :on 5-28-92 at 12:00 midnight the patient was taken to the operating room .the preoperative diagnosis as above was a left brachial embolus .the postoperative diagnosis , the same .the procedure was a left brachial embolectomy .the surgeon was dr. home and first assistant dr. home .the findings were a thromboembolism with propagated clot in the left brachial artery .there were no complications .the patient tolerated the procedure well and returned to the floor soon after the procedure .on postoperative day # 1 the patient was afebrile with stable vitals and he had a very strong left radial pulse and a warm hand .he was heparinized postoperatively and a cardiology consult was obtained .in addition echocardiography for the next day was arranged .the patient was seen on 5-29-92 by the ward cardiology consult .his assessment was that this was a 76 year old gentleman with atrial fibrillation and a dilated non-ischemic cardiomyopathy status post two embolic / thrombotic phenomena with a recent history of an upper gastrointestinal bleed .he recommended that the patient be heparinized as the scabeth t hospital surgery team had already done and that coumadinization be begun within a few days of heparinization .these recommendations were already underway .consequently we simply continued our management .the cardiology consult also spoke to the patient &apos;s primary medical doctor , dr. blood in clear la who related that the patient had had two large esophageal ulcers and a history of polycythemia vera in the past .on 5-30-92 the patient &apos;s gastroenterologist dr. ri blood was contacted .dr. blood was on vacation , however dr. kotethorereke , his partner was in the office and went through mr. flytheleungfyfe &apos;s old chart and noted that dr. blood had performed esophagogastroduodenoscopy on the patient during his north carolina admission for an acute upper gastrointestinal bleed .during this time in january of 1992 dr. blood had noted two distal esophageal ulcers .he had treated both of these with epinephrine injection .follow up endoscopy on mar 15 , 1992 had shown two deformities in the distal esophagus corresponding to the presence of esophageal ulcers treated earlier in january .there was also a 4 cm. hiatus hernia from 36 cm. to 40 cm .the stomach and duodenum were otherwise normal .from dr. blood &apos;s standpoint on mar 15 , 1992 there was no contraindication to coumadinization .we discussed coumadinization with dr. blood and noting dr. blood &apos;s earlier findings we , in conjunction with dr. blood decided to coumadinize the patient and coumadinization was begun on 5-30-92 .it was noted at that time that a stable dose for the patient earlier when he had been coumadinized before was 5 mg. po q.day .that was concurrent with albuterol 150 mg. po q.day .given the patient &apos;s history of ulcer and hiatus hernia and the fact that we did wish to anticoagulate the patient we actually performed upper endoscopy on the patient on 5-31-92 .the findings were as follows .the principal operating surgeon was dr. ca scgach with the assistance of dr. jesclinke .the principal findings were a 5.0 cm. hiatal hernia and apparent ingree and ot of weamanshy medical center &apos;s esophagus distally .in the stomach there were mild erosions of the gastroesophageal junction without other abnormalities .there were no abnormalities into the second portion of the duodenum .the overall impression was that there was an apparent healed esophageal ulcer , a hiatus hernia , an esophageal mucosal changes distally were consistent with a barrett &apos;s esophagus .no biopsy was taken .the biopsy was deferred because the patient had received a dose of coumadin the night before and had a prothrombin time of approximately 15 before the procedure .on 6-1-92 the patient went to the echocardiography suite .findings were :there was no evidence of intracardiac thrombus , although this was a transcardiac echocardiogram which is not the best technique for visualizing intraatrial thrombus .there was a thickened mitral leaflet with mild mitral regurgitation .there was focal calcification in the mitral annulus .the aortic leaflets were thickened with no aortic stenosis .there was trace aortic insufficiency .the aorta at the sinuses was ectactic at 42 millimeters .the left ventricular size and function were within normal limits with a left ventricular ejection fractio n of 57 percent .there was trace tricuspid insufficiency .there was evidence of an old pacer wire in the right atrium .there was trace pulmonary insufficiency with right ventricular systolic blood pressure of 35 millimeters .there was paradoxical septal motion consistent with bundle branch block .the patient , it should be noted at this time , was doing very well and he was taking regular diet , voiding spontaneously .he had been therapeutically heparinized since going to the operating room and by 6-2-92 his prothrombin time was beginning to elevate .on 6-2-92 he presented a new complaint with left wrist swelling and pain .he confessed to a history of gout in the past and consequently rheumatology consult was obtained .the rheumatologist entertained gout as an attractive diagnosis given his history and they aspirated the joint .joint aspirate was remarkable for calcium phosphate crystals , that is the patient actually had a case of pseudo-gout .joint aspirate that was sent for culture has been negative to date and today is 6-4-92 .the rheumatologist recommended checking a wrist xray to rule out calcification .a wrist xray was obtained of the left wrist and it did show chondrocalcinosis thus confirming the diagnosis of pseudo-gout .the patient &apos;s pseudogout was treated with colchicine 0.6 mg. po q. 3 hours and he received nine such doses over a time span of about 42 hours with some relief of his symptoms .he is being discharged on colchicine 0.6 mg. po t.i.d. as an acute measure for his pseudo-gout and that prescription will last until he sees dr. blood in follow up this coming tuesday .today , on 6-4-92 , the patient has no new complaint .yesterday , on 6-3-92 , his prothrombin time was just a bit over 16 , between 16 and 17 and consequently his heparin was discontinued .today his prothrombin time is 16.7 and it looks like 5 mg. of coumadin per day is going to be a stable dose for him .consequently , he is ready for discharge today .the only other thing of note is that secondary to his anticoagulation with coumadin his ecotrin has been discontinued .medications on discharge :isordil 10 mg. po t.i.d.ditropan 5 mg. po q.i.d.cimetidine 400 mg. po b.i.d.omeprazole 20 mg. po b.i.d.colchicine 0.6 mg. po t.i.d.percocet 1 tablet po q. 4 to 6 hours prn and coumadin 5 mg. po q.day .disposition :the patient is being discharged to home today 9-1-25 .his plans for follow up include a return to the maza alllarow healthcare surgery clinic on 6-21-92 , that is two and a half weeks from the day of discharge ( 6-4-92 ) .he is to see his primary medical doctor , dr. telshey swatlleebtik in ki ave , sapo on tuesday , june 7 , 1992 , that is this coming tuesday .it has been a pleasure serving mr. flytheleungfyfe and taking care of him .he is a very pleasant gentleman and it has also been a pleasure to deal with his primary medical doctor , dr. blood who is very accessible .tomedankell flowayles , m.d.tr :ag / bmotdd :6-4-92td :06/07/92cc :dr. tomedankell flowayles dr. telshey swatlleebtik , bihi