559327548 | smh | 64379841 | | 5528832 | 1/26/2007 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 6/11/2007 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/26/2007attending: cagey , coy mdservice:cardiology.principal diagnosis:coronary artery disease.list of problems:1. coronary artery disease.2. status post mi.3. diabetes mellitus.4. hospital-acquired pneumonia.history of present illness:mr. zaspel is a 75-year-old female with diabetes , coronary arterydisease , status post cabg in 1995 , recent mibi , stress test injuly with a small area of reversible ischemia inferiorly who hadperipheral vascular disease , right cva status post ivc filter fordvt , triple aaa , status post repair , copd , who presented toone memorial hospital with nausea of unclear source and deep lateralt wave inversions in ekg leads v2-v6. she has noted intermittentfevers at home to 102 and sent into the camptown on memorial hospital by hervna. please see discharge summary from sheyfle hospital formore details. she was at that time on treatment for a left footdiabetic ulcer on augmentin. over the last week prior toadmission , she had increasing nausea , diarrhea without abdominalpain. she did have mild fevers and increased cough though shehad no chest pain , orthopnea or urinary complaints. at thecea sto valley hospital , they noted that she had deep t-wave inversionslaterally and she was ruled out for dcs by cardiac enzymes. theytransferred her to burns memorial health care for considerationof cardiac catheterization.past medical history:1. type ii diabetes complicated by peripheral neuropathy.2. coronary artery disease status post cabg in 1995.3. congestive heart failure.4. copd.5. peripheral vascular disease.6. hypertension.7. chronic kidney disease.8. abdominal aortic aneurysm , status post repair.9. carotid disease status post right cea.10. dvt status post ivc filter.11. diverticulitis , status post sigmoid colectomy.12. gout.13. left foot diabetic ulcer , has been treated with multipledifferent antibiotic courses including levofloxacin , flagyl , andnasalide , as well as augmentin.medications prior to admission:1. augmentin 875 mg p.o. b.i.d.2. oxycontin 8 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n.3. tylenol as needed.4. tessalon perles p.r.n.5. ativan 0.5 at bedtime p.r.n.6. atrovent nebulizer p.r.n.7. lasix 30 mg p.o. daily.8. glipizide 2.5 mg p.o. daily.9. gabapentin 300 mg p.o. t.i.d.10. multivitamin.11. atenolol 25 mg p.o. daily.12. allopurinol 100 mg p.o. daily.13. aspirin 81 mg daily.14. lipitor 40 mg daily.allergy/adverse drug reactions:1. sulfa , the allergic reaction is unclear , although it hasnoted anaphylaxis on previous discharge summaries.2. theophylline causes tongue swelling.3. quinine reaction unclear.4. iodine/iv contrast. this is noted in the medical record.however , the patient does not remember having an adverse reactionor allergic reaction to iv contrast.5. iron , this reaction is unknown.6. erythromycin , again , the patient does not remember anyreaction , but apparently has hives.7. levofloxacin , unclear what the reaction is. she hastolerated this in april , which she was treated for a footulcer. it is not clear if this is a rash or it was thought to bepossibly related to a fever that the patient had , but it is notclear what the actual reaction is.social history:the patient is an 80-pack-year smoker. he is currently smoking.physical exam on admission:her temperature was 99 , her pulse was 98 , her blood pressure was105/55. her respiratory rate was 18 when she was saturating 94%on room air. in general , she is in no acute distress. her heentexam was unremarkable. her cardiac exam was regular rate andrhythm with a 2/6 systolic murmur at the apex. her lung exam wasnotable for crackles most prominent in the left lower lobe. herabdomen was soft , obese , nontender and nondistended with goodbowel sounds. her extremities were significant for erythema ofthe left shin without warmth or tenderness. she also had a small1.5 cm ulceration on the bottom of her left foot which has beenpresent for sometime although she says that it looks better thanat first. there was no purulence or purulent drainage from thewound. her neurologic exam was unremarkable.laboratory data on admission:her labs were notable for a creatinine of 1.6 , a white count of4.1 , with 11% eosinophils. her hematocrit was 31.6 , and heralbumin was 3.procedures:cardiac catheterization: it was done by dr. eeds .findings:showed a right dominant circulation. there were no significantleft main lesions identified. the lad had a tubular 90% lesionand the diagonal i had a proximal tubular 60% lesion , there wasalso a diffuse 80% lesion of the proximal circumflex. the rcahad a proximal 75% lesion with a mid diffuse 60% lesion and a plvtubular 70% lesion. the coronary artery bypass grafts had apatent lima to lad graft , the svg to marginal i had a 100% lesionduring this catheterization due to the moderate amount ofcontrast and the patient's chronic kidney disease , they treatedthe rca and placed a 3 x 24 mm taxus stentechocardiogram:on 7/9/07 , showed an estimated ejection fraction of 50% withinferoseptal and inferior severe hypokinesis. the rv was normal.there was mild aortic stenosis. mild-to-moderate aorticregurgitation. the valve area was 1.2 cm2. there was mildmitral regurgitation. there is trace tricuspid regurgitationwith a pulmonary artery systolic pressure of 36 mm plus rightatrial pressure.hospital course by problem:1. cardiovascular:a. ischemia: the patient was admitted because they had deep twave inversions in the lateral leads and are still concerning foranginal equivalence of nausea and vomiting. it was decided onadmission that an echocardiogram would be performed and if therewas evidence of any regional wall motion abnormalities that shewould be taken directly to cath. the echocardiogram as notedabove showed inferior hypokinesis consistent with coronary arterydisease. she was taken to the cath lab on 9/5/07 and they showtwo ____ that one of the bypass grafts was completely occludedand was not visualized. they also saw that there was a proximalrca lesion 60% which was found to account for the inferiorhypokinesis given the right arm circulation. this was stentedwith a taxus stent. because of her kidney insufficiency , it wasdecided not to pursue the 80% left circ lesion and this wasdeferred until later point as this was not thought to be causingany problems. her post cath ecg was unchanged and continued tohave the deep lateral t wave inversions. she did not complain ofany chest pain or nausea and vomiting during her admission. shewas started on aspirin and plavix initially although as notedbelow she did have an apparent allergy to plavix and thus wasswitched to ticlopidine 250 mg b.i.d. instead of plavix foranticoagulation. she was also continued lipitor 80 mg daily ,lopressor 25 mg t.i.d. after her cath , it was originally plannedthat she would go back to cath for intervention on the leftcirculation lesion , however , given her other medical problems andher relative stability hemodynamically and symptomatically , itwas decided that they would wait and decide later if this lesionneeded to be corrected in the future or not.b. pump: the patient had no significant issues with her bloodpressure here. she remained in a blood pressure range of 100-120throughout her stay. she was continued on her beta blocker asnoted above. however , at discharge , this was switched back toatenolol as her home medications and she refused to changemedications , she said that she would not be able to afford newprescription. we did increase her dose of atenolol to 25 mgb.i.d. from 25 mg daily as her requirement of beta blockadeseemed to be higher than what her home dose was. given that shehas a concurrent renal disease , it would probably be useful forher to be on an ace inhibitor arb as well. this medicationshould be added as an outpatient , if her blood pressure toleratesit. it was on the lower side here , so we did not add it. we didnot diurese her in fact we held her lasix on admission becauseshe seemed to be volume depleted given that she was admitted witha lot of diarrhea , this again will need to be reconsidered if shehad increased edema. this can be restarted.c: rhythm: the patient was kept on telemetry , however , therewere no significant episodes of arrhythmias during her admission.2. gi: the patient was admitted with persistent nausea anddiarrhea from tlmamuthes medical center .  the diarrhea resolved one dayafter admission. her fecal leukocytes were positive but her c.diff was negative. it was unclear what the etiology of thisdiarrhea was and we were going to send a repeat stool study ,however , she did not have any diarrhea afterwards and this may beantibiotics associated diarrhea but it seemed to resolvespontaneously.3. pulmonary: the patient was admitted with crackles in theleft lower lobe and some wheezing consistent with copd andpneumonia. a chest x-ray on admission showed a right lower lobeinfiltrate/atelectasis. we initially continued her on augmentin ,which she was taking for her diabetic foot ulcer. however , shedid not appear to clinically respond to this medication. we heldher antibiotics as noted below in the id section and after thather white blood cell count increased and she produced somepurulent sputum and gram-negative rods. the gram-negative rodswere later speciated as serratia although this information is notavailable at the time of her discharge. she was treated for ahospital-acquired pneumonia with vancomycin and ceftazidime tocomplete a 14-day course. clinically , she appeared to improve onthis regimen , although her white count was still elevated at 15on discharge , however , given her overall clinical stability , thelack of fevers and the lack of systemic symptoms. we feltcomfortable with discharging her with close follow up.4. infectious disease: the patient was initially admitted onaugmentin for a diabetic foot ulcer , the notes from grantnas healthcare by the infectious disease service recommended a 2-4 weekcourse of augmentin for her diabetic foot ulcer. she hadcompleted three weeks of therapy and thus we discontinued thismedication as it did not seem that there was really any evidenceof active infection in her foot. after holding the antibioticsfor three days , her white count began to rise and she developed apurulent cough as noted above , this was thought to be ahospital-acquired pneumonia. she was treated with vancomycin andceftazidime and she will complete a 14-day course of theseantibiotics.5. endocrine: the patient was home on oral hypoglycemics. shewas switched to coverage with an insulin scale. her sugars wererelatively well controlled and she did not require much in theway of supplemental insulin.6. renal: the patient has chronic kidney disease. her baselinecreatinine was 1.5-1.6. she was admitted and had a cath. shewas given mucomyst and bicarbonated fluids for renal protectionduring her dilute. because of the risk for kidneys , the cath wasdone with a little amount of dye as possible. her creatinineremained stable throughout her admission and settled out at 1.6of her creatinine which is the baseline.allergy:during the patient's admission , it was noted that she developed arash on 4/15/06 .  she was seen by the allergy and immunologyservice at the request of the cath lab given that there wasconcern that she had this rash because of her plavix. they feltthat this was possible. this was the most likely etiology and inconjunction with her high eosinophil count it was felt that thiswas a drug reaction to the plavix. she was switched toticlopidine 250 mg b.i.d. and her rash appeared to improve. shewas also given claritin as well as put on a brief prednisonetaper given her diffuse rash and her brisk eosinophilia. sheshould follow up with allergy and immunology in about one monthto see if the rash has resolved and potentially to tryrechallenge with plavix at that point.cellulitis/diabetic foot ulcer: the patient has had alongstanding diabetic foot ulcer which has been treated by woundcare vna and was treated at tha hospital .  we continued theaugmentin to a total course of three weeks and then stopped it.we continued her dressing changes and this will be followed bythe vna at home. there was no evidence of active infection ,there was no purulence or erythema around the area of the ulcerand the erythema around the foot appeared to be stable , this wasmost likely chronic venous stasis change and not a truecellulitis as there was no warmth or tenderness in this region.consultants:allergy/immunology , the attending was dr. frija .physical exam at discharge:the patient was afebrile. her pulse was 86 , her blood pressurewas 120/60 , her respiratory rate was 20. she was 92-96% on roomair. in general , she was in no acute distress. her jvp wasabout 7 cm. she had small amount of crackles at bilateral bases.her cardiac exam was regular rate and rhythm with normal s1 ands2. there was a 2/6 systolic murmur most prominent at the leftlower sternal border. her abdomen is soft , nontender , andnondistended with good bowel sounds. she had 1+ edemabilaterally with small amounts of erythema at the distal end ofthe left lower extremity which has been stable. there is noassociated warmth or tenderness. she did have a 1.5 cm smallulcer on the ventral aspect of her left foot , which did not haveany purulence associated with it. her neurologic exam wasnonfocal.laboratory data on admission:notable for a creatinine of 1.5 , a white blood cell count of15.89 , with 82.7% neutrophils , 3.8% eosinophils. her hematocritwas 28.6. her baseline appears to be around 30.discharge medications:1. ticlopidine 250 mg by mouth twice a day.2. atenolol 25 mg by mouth b.i.d.3. lipitor 80 mg daily.4. prednisone taper 30 mg on 10/18/07 , 20 mg on 10/3/07 , 10 mgon 10/18/07 and then stop.5. vancomycin 1 g iv daily , course to be completed on 1/16/07 .6. ceftazidime 1 g daily to be complete on 1/16/07 .7. allopurinol 100 mg daily.8. neurontin 300 mg three times a day.9. tessalon perles as needed.10. ativan 0.5 mg at bedtime as needed for sleep.11. glipizide 2.5 mg daily.12. duoneb every 4 hours as needed for shortness of breath.13. lasix 30 mg by mouth daily.14. aspirin 81 mg daily.disposition:home with services.pending tests:as noted , the patient had a sputum culture that was growinggram-negative rods at the time of discharge. the current reportis that it was growing serratia marcescens which should be staphsensitive to ceftazidime , which he was prescribed for a total of14 days.follow up:she will follow up with dr. antony baldonado on 10/12/07 at 9:30a.m. she has an appointment scheduled.to do list:1. the patient has an 80% left circumflex lesion which was notstented. this should be , ___28.20__ , whether she needs a secondintervention in the future. she does appear to be asymptomatic ,but she does continue to have the deep lateral t wave inversionsuggesting the areas of abnormal blood flow in the heart. it wasthought that the right rca lesion was more likely to be the causeof her inferior wall hypokinesis , so that was the procedureperformed.2. the patient was treated for hospital-acquired pneumonia withvancomycin and ceftazidime. this will continue until 1/16/07 .she was noted to have a rash here which was thought to be plavixrelated. if the rash resolves on ticlopidine , she may need toreaddress whether or not this was actually due to plavix. it wasrecommended that she follow up with an allergist in about a monthfrom her hospitalization who can review the records and determinewhether she should start plavix or maintain on the ticlopidine.3. her platelets should be monitored given that she started onticlopidine and there is a risk of ttp associated with thismedication.escription document: 2-5081465 emssten telcc: lenard prey m.d.nor ties pro health caresquite kan fallsaleridictated by: augustyn , burlattending: kite , jamiedictation id 3181966d: 10/3/07t: 10/29/07