898069066 | cch | 49521159 | | 7978479 | 10/28/2003 12:00:00 am | necrotizing fasciitis | signed | dis | admission date: 7/1/2003 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/25/2003principal discharge diagnosis: necrotizing fasciitis.history of present illness: this is a 73-year-old female with ahistory of insulin-dependent diabetesmellitus and critical as , who presented to the emergency departmentfrom her primary care er/ neslath community hospital of office presenting with aright thigh mass present x 4 days. the patient was unable toambulate secondary to this abscess pain , patient with chills andfevers to 102. her glucose had become difficult to control sincethe start of the abscess , and she presented to the emergencydepartment tachycardic and hypotensive.past medical history: past medical history includesinsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , morbidobesity , critical as , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , andanemia.medications: her home medications include glyburide , metformin ,hydrochlorothiazide , protonix , lipitor , and zestril.allergies: allergies include penicillin.physical exam on admission: in the emergency department here atthe merso ri riska hospital , her temperature was101.5 , her heart rate was 128 , blood pressure 103/52 , and she wasbreathing regularly , saturating 98% on room air. she was generallya mildly ill appearing obese female. cardiovascularly , she wastachycardic and regular. she had a 2/6 systolic murmur louder onthe right. her lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. herabdomen was soft and obese , nontender , with audible but low bowelsounds. rectal exam was trace guaiac-positive by report. herextremities showed a large right thigh abscess with a boilimmediately below the pannus , with positive erythema , tendernessdown to the knee and up to the groin. there was no labial orperirectal involvement.labs on admission: bun of 73 , creatinine of 3.8 , and a glucose of357. white blood cell count of 18.4. ekg onadmission showed sinus tachycardia , with some t wave inversion , andchest x-ray showed some mild pulmonary edema. the ua showed sometrace blood and trace leukocyte esterase.hospital course: patient was taken emergently to the operatingroom for an incision and drainage of thisabscess , which was believed to be a necrotizing fasciitis.postoperatively , the patient remained intubated and was in thesurgical intensive care unit. she was started on neofed forcontrol of her blood pressure to get it to the 70s , and wasreceiving metoprolol and esmolol for a heart rate that had gone upto the 130s. she was on triple antibiotics for full coverage andtreatment of her infection. on postoperative day 1 , the patientremained in the intensive care unit. she was awake and appearedcomfortable on fentanyl for analgesia. she was evaluated bybrookstibu health cardiology. she continued to need levophed forher blood pressure. her cardiac enzymes and ekgs were beingcontinuously followed for evaluation of cardiac complications. shecontinued to be on a ventilator and her diabetes was controlledwith an insulin drip. on postoperative day 2 , plastic surgery wasconsulted and continued to follow the patient for futurenecessitating closure of this right thigh wound. on postoperativeday 3 , patient remained in the intensive care unit. blood pressurewas improving , ng tube was removed , and a diet was started. bypostoperative day 4 , the patient was feeling well. she remained inthe intensive care unit. she was tolerating percocet for pain.the wound appeared to have healthy tissue. she continued tonecessitate an insulin drip. the cultures on the wound showedpositive enterococci and corynebacter. she continued to be onvancomycin , levofloxacin , and flagyl for these microbes. onpostoperative day 4 , she was transferred to a regular nursing floorin stable condition. on the regular nursing floor , the patientcontinued to do well , tolerating all her diabetes meds by mouth.her vital signs were stable , with blood pressures 140/70s and aheart rate ranging in the 70-75s. on postoperative day 8 , a vacsponge was placed on the wound , rehab screening was initiated , andon postoperative day 9 the patient was transferred to arehabilitation facility. she was in stable condition. she wasworking with physical therapy. she was tolerating a regular dietand tolerating all of her medications , with continued stable vitalsigns. her wound showed healthy tissue and was covered with a vacsponge , that needs to be changed every three days. she continuesto be on triple antibiotics , and on the day of discharge she is day9 of a 21-day course. her vancomycin is dosed daily , depending onher vancomycin level , that must be drawn also daily. patient is tofollow up with dr. malady in one week and is to follow up withplastic surgery in three weeks for evaluation of closure of thewound. patient is to follow up with her primary care physician andher princoness- caken valley medical center cardiologist as needed after discharge fromrehab.her discharge medications include vitamin c 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,glyburide 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. , heparin 5000 u subcu t.i.d. , a slidingscale of regular insulin , flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. day 9 of 21 ,percocet 1-2 tablets p.o. q.4-6h. p.r.n. pain , multivitamintherapeutic with minerals one tablet p.o. q.d. , vancomycin 1 g ivq.d. dosed daily only when the daily vancomycin lab levels are lessthan 15 , zinc sulfate 220 mg p.o. q.d. , maalox , levofloxacin 500 mgp.o. q.d. , esomeprazole 20 mg p.o. q.d.discharge instructions: diet: house diet , ada , 2100 calories aday. activity: as tolerated , norestrictions , elevate feet for any prolonged sitting periods.followup: as previously noted , with dr. bardes , plastic surgery ,and sisterswe university health care followup.dictated by: norris riggert , paattending: karl hoague , m.d. je31  ez969/845463batch: 1966 index no. hnbg8x00kc d: 5/30/03t: 5/30/03