941854864 | sh | 00232580 | | 7286905 | 7/24/2006 12:00:00 am | vomiting | signed | dis | admission date: 6/5/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 12/10/2006attending: gizinski , lesley m.d.primary care physician: dr. marcel suders of rh .principal diagnosis: vomiting and hypertension.other problems and diagnosis: include diabetes , end-stage renaldisease , gout , hypercholesterolemia , and primary biliary cirrhosis.history of present illness: this is a 51-year-old woman withend-stage renal disease on three times a week hemodialysis whovomited during hemodialysis on the day prior to admission. shecompleted her hemodialysis , went home , and continued to havemultiple episodes of non-biliary emesis. she was unable to takepo's including her antihypertensive medications. she did notreport any change in appetite though she was reluctant to eat dueto concerns about vomiting. she did not have any sick contacts.she did go to a barbeque over the weekend but no one else at thepicnic was known to be sick. she does not feel feverish per sebut does report some sensation of feeling heated while at dialysis ,no chills. she has had normal bowel movements. she does reporta cough , which is productive of clear sputum. no chest pain , noshortness of breath. she does have some abdominal pain thatoccurs with her vomiting and retching. no visual changes frombaseline. she also reports dysuria and some increased frequencyof urination on the morning of admission. of note , the patienthas been admitted in july of this year witha similar presentation of nausea and vomiting with increased bloodpressures , which resolved with treatment for nausea and theresumption of her blood pressure medications.medications: her medications prior to admission included regular insulinon a sliding scale , aspirin 81 mg per day ,plavix 75 mg per day , metoprolol 50 mg three times a day ,nifedipine 30 mg four times a day , losartan 100 mg once a day ,allopurinol 100 mg every other day , nexium 20 mg once a day , ursodiol300 mg once a day , and colace twice a day. the patient alsoreports taking clonidine 0.1 mg three times a day.past medical history: remarkable for end-stage renal disease onhemodialysis three times a week , diabetes mellitus type 2 withretinopathy and neuropathy , hypertension , coronary artery diseasestatus post stent x4 in september 2005 , shown on repeat cardiaccatheterization in october 2006 to be patent , gout , primarybiliary cirrhosis , hypercholesterolemia , polymyalgia rheumatica. she is alsostatus post hysterectomy and status post cataractsurgery.allergies: though she does not report having any drug allergies , herchart notes unspecified reactions to oralhypoglycemics and calcitriol.social history: she does not use tobacco and does not drinkalcohol. she lives with relatives.physical examination: on admission , the patient's vital signswere temperature 97.8 , heart rate 79 , blood pressure 148/79. her oxygensaturation was 95% on roomair. she was not in any acute distress. her jvp was flat. hermucous membranes were moist. she did not have cervicallymphadenopathy. her lungs were clear. her cardiovascular examshowed regular rate and rhythm with a loud 3/6 systolic murmur bestheard at the left upper sternal border. her abdomen wasnontender and nondistended. bowel sounds were present. nohepatosplenomegaly was noted on exam. she did not have reboundor guarding. she did not have lower extremity edema. distal pulseswere present.laboratory data: pertinent labs on admission include: whiteblood cell count of 4 with 81% polys and hematocrit of 35.5. herbilirubin was slightly elevated at 1.3. her amylase was 82. herlipase was 15. her ekg showed sinus rhythm. studies included achest x-ray on 10/28/06 , which showed stable cardiomegaly withsome interval progression in her mild interstitial edema andstable bilateral effusions. she had a ct of her abdomen andpelvis on 10/19/06 , which showed small bilateral pleuraleffusions and a small pericardial effusion , splenomegaly with aspleen measuring 16 cm. the liver appeared normal other than foran area of focal fat or perfusion anomaly adjacent to thefalciform ligament. gallstones were present. the stomach andthe small bowel were decompressed. there were no findings toexplain nausea or vomiting , and there was no evidence of bowelobstruction. the patient also had an mr angio of the abdomen on10/19/06 , which was unremarkable. splenomegaly , cholelithiasis ,and a trace pericardial effusion were noted.hospital course by problem: this is a 51-year-old woman with ahistory of end-stage renal disease who presented with nausea andvomiting and hypertensive urgency likely secondary to herinability to tolerate her p.o. blood pressure medications.1. gi. the patient had nausea and vomiting , which wascontrolled with reglan initially iv. she was then transitioned top.o. she had resolution of her nausea , but the nausea returnedwhen the reglan was stopped , so she was maintained on a standingdose of 5 mg reglan before meals. an abdominal ct was doneand did not find evidence of obstruction or any other findings toexplain nausea or vomiting. an mr angiogram of the abdomen wasalso done to evaluate for the possibility of vascular disease ,but this exam was unremarkable.2. cardiovascular. there was concern for demand ischemia giventhe patient's history of coronary artery disease and high bloodpressure. she did have a troponin of 0.38 , which came down to0.25 , and then was undetectable. with treatment for nausea , thepatient was able to take her p.o. medications and her bloodpressures were controlled. her metoprolol dose was increased to75 t.i.d.3. renal. the patient was continued on monday , wednesday ,friday hemodialysis while she was in the hospital.4. id. the patient continued to have a low-grade temperaturewhile she was in the hospital. multiple blood cultures weredrawn , which did not show any growth. she did have one ua , whichshowed bacteria but which also had epithelial cells. she didreceive a seven-day course of antibiotics. she wasinitially started on levofloxacin , vancomycin , and flagyl givenconcern for an abdominal process and then was switched andcovered briefly with ceftazidine before continuing the rest ofher course on levofloxacin. the patient was also tested fortuberculosis given her persistent fevers and her history ofcough. she had a ppd placed on the day of discharge , which willneed to be read at dialysis on 6/15/06 .  the patient'sallopurinol was discontinued due to a concern that it could becontributing to her fever.5. endocrine. the patient was maintained on an aspart slidingscale and had modest blood glucose levels in the 100s.6. rheumatic. the patient had persistent fevers. she also had ahistory in her chart of polymyalgia rheumatica though she wasnot familiar with this diagnosis. she had an elevated esr of 102and an elevated crp of 184. she also had a history ofhilar adenopathy seen on previous chest ct scans. a repeat chestct has been ordered and is pending at the time of discharge. therheumatology service was consulted and evaluated the patient. anspep and ipep were ordered to rule out gammopathy , and ana wasordered along with complement studies and antimitochondrialantibodies. the results of these tests are pending and thepatient has been scheduled to follow up in the bmc rheumatology clinicthe week after discharge.7. consultants. the patient was seen by dr. chauncey quandt of the smhhematology service and by the rheumatology service.physical examination at discharge: on the day of discharge , thepatient was afebrile with a temperature of 97.3 , heart rate of69 , and blood pressure of 155/77. her oxygen saturation was 95%on room air. her physical exam was not significantly changed.her abdomen was benign. her lungs were clear. her heart had aregular rate and rhythm with a systolic murmur.discharge medications: aspirin 81 mg daily , clonidine 0.1 mgt.i.d. , plavix 75 mg p.o. daily , nexium 20 mg p.o. daily ,losartan 100 mg p.o. daily , reglan 5 mg p.o. q.a.c. and h.s. ,metoprolol 75 mg p.o. t.i.d. , nifedipine 30 mg p.o. q.i.d. , andursodiol 300 mg p.o. daily.escription document: 3-7519810 cssten telcc: eldridge vince virgili mdford ertbeachdictated by: lenberg , sebastianattending: loncar , omardictation id 8673981d: 10/11/06t: 9/29/06