725291566 | ln | 17210008 | | 812718 | 1/30/1991 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 9/20/1991 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/12/1991history of present illness: chief complaint was a 57 year old manwho was status post percutaneoustransluminal coronary angioplasty times 2 , of a left anteriordescending stenosis for unstable angina , and was admitted for newonset of angina at rest. the patient's cardiac risk factorsincluded family history , borderline high cholesterol. the patienthad no prior cardiac history , until 12 of june , when he had substernalchest pain with exertion. he eventually had cardiaccatheterization which showed an 80% proximal left anteriordescending lesion with thrombosis , good left ventricular function.the patient had percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty tothis lesion. he was without symptoms for about 4 weeks , and thenin 23 of august , the patient noted new onset chest pain and left armnumbness at rest. an electrocardiogram at that time showed sinusbradycardia at 50 , t-wave inversions in ii with flat t-waves iniii , and was otherwise unremarkable. he had an exercise tolerancetest at the time and went on a 9-minute standard bruce protocol andstopped secondary to fatigue. the electrocardiogram showed 3 to 4millimeter st depressions in the lateral leads , which was highlypredictive of coronary artery disease. at that time , he was repeatcardiac catheterization which showed a restenosis of his leftanterior descending lesion. he had a repeat percutaneoustransluminal coronary angioplasty of the lesion withoutcomplications. the patient did well for several weeks and waspain-free. however , 6 days prior to admission , the patient beganto note occasional episodes of left arm numbness , which was alwaysrelieved with sublingual nitroglycerin. there was no accompanyingdizziness , nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis. the patient at first had2 or 3 episodes a day , now increased to 7 or 8 times a day at thetime of admission. on the day of adimssion , the patient had almostconstant chest pain and arm pain which lasted almost all day , onlypartially relieved by sublingual nitroglycerin. the patient wasvery concerned about the pain , and now comes to tes healthcare for further evaluation. past medical history includedarthritis , kidney stones , chronic lower back pain. medications onadmission were lopressor 25 milligrams by mouth twice a day ,aspirin 325 milligrams by mouth per day , isordil 10 milligrams bymouth 3 times a day. allergies included no known drug allergies.social history revealed the patient was a retired firefighter ,occasional red wine , no tobacco use. his brother had 3 myocardialinfarctions in the past , no other family history.physical examination: the patient was afebrile , pulse 54 , bloodpressure 104/70 , respirations 20. there wasno jugular venous distention. chest was clear. cardiacexamination showed regular rate and rhythm , normal s1 , s2 , noperipheral edema. extremities had good pulses bilaterally indorsalis pedis , posterior tibial and femoral.laboratory examination: admitting laboratory values wereremarkable for potassium 4.3 , creatinine1.0 , hematocrit 40.8. the electrocardiogram showed sinusbradycardia at 50 , normal intervals , flat t-waves in avf , v2 andv3 , qrs axis 0 degrees. chest x-ray showed no infiltrates oreffusions , no evidence of congestive heart failure.hospital course: the patient was admitted on a rule out myocardialinfarction protocol. he had no elevations in hisserum creatinine kinase levels. the patient continued to haveintermittent left arm numbness during his hospital stay. for thisreason , he was taken back for cardiac catheterization , which showeda 75% proximal left anterior descending lesion believed to be atthe same site as his previous percutaneous transluminal coronaryangioplasty procedures. the patient had successful percutaneoustransluminal coronary angioplasty of the lesion with a 25% residualstenosis. the patient postoperatively had no further episodes ofchest pain or arm numbness. he had no complications related to thecardiac catheterization itself. the patient was then discharged.disposition: the patient was discharged to home. medications ondischarge will be lopressor 25 milligrams by mouthtwice a day , ecotrin 1 tablet by mouth per day , diltiazem 60milligrams by mouth twice a day. the patient was to follow-up withhis cardiologist in 1 week.re503/9695carson avery cifelli , m.d. ay1 d: 9/5/91batch: 0102 report: z9562s7 t: 3/9/91dictated by: leif c. gamba , m.d.