record #451973036050725 | wr | 53380160 | | 093316 | 1/3/1997 12:00:00 am | coronary artery disease | signed | dis | admission date: 5/21/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/12/1997principal diagnosis: congestive heart failure.significant problems:1. coronary artery disease.2. hypercholesterolemia.3. hypertension.4. history of congestive heart failure with flash pulmonary edema.5. history of depression.6. glaucoma.7. non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.8. mitral regurgitation.9. chronic renal insufficiency.10. history of breast cancer status post left mastectomy andtamoxifen treatment.history of present illness: the patient is a 69-year-old femalewith known coronary artery disease ,crf , and history of flash pulmonary edema , recently admitted todarnbo hospital on 7/29/97 after sudden onset of shortness of breathunrelieved by one sublingual nitroglycerin. this shortness ofbreath awakened her from sleep. her blood pressure in theemergency room was 230/110 without ekg changes. she responded wellto iv lasix and iv nitroglycerin , saturating at 99% on 100%nonrebreather mask. chest x-ray was consistent with pulmonaryedema. her blood pressure was stabilized on iv nitroglycerin withresolution of her shortness of breath. she was ruled out formyocardial infarction. the patient was also recently admitted onemonth ago to stonemep medical center for flash pulmonary edema withoutevidence of myocardial infarction. echo on admission showed 30%ejection fraction with anteroapical and posterobasal hypokinesis.cardiac catheterization in march 1997 showed a 90% proximal rcalesion and diffuse distal lad disease. during vigorous rehydrationfollowing that cardiac catheterization , she developed recurrentpulmonary edema requiring intubation from which she was weanedfollowing diuresis. because her pulmonary edema was believed to beischemia related , she was transferred to the ha hospital for rca angioplasty. on this admission , she denies anychest pain , shortness of breath , or dizziness. she has threepillow orthopnea , ankle edema. she denies any paroxysmal nocturnaldyspnea with the exception of her current presentation. thepatient's coronary risk factors include diabetes mellitus ,hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , post menopausal status withouthormone replacement therapy , and history of tobacco use. herexercise tolerance is such that she develops shortness of breathwith walking one block or one flight of stairs. she reports havingto sit down at every other bench in the mall.past medical history: 1. hypercholesterolemia. total cholesterol266 down to 193. 2. hypertension. 3.breast cancer status post left mastectomy seven years ago andstatus post five years of tamoxifen therapy. she has had no otherchemo or radiation treatment. 4. depression. 5. hypercalcemia ( noalkalized syndrome ) 1/11 6. history of recurrent pneumonia. 7.history of diverticulitis. 8. glaucoma. 9. non-insulin-dependentdiabetes mellitus diagnosed one year ago , diet controlled. 10.chronic renal insufficiency with a history of pyelonephritis at agethree. 11. mitral regurgitation. 12. status post total abdominalhysterectomy , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy at age 40 , hormonereplacement therapy for five years which was then discontinuedsecondary to her breast cancer. 13. status post bilateral kneereplacement.transfer medications: lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. started threeweeks ago , axid 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , entericcoated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.day , isordil 30 mg p.o. q.i.d. ,hydralazine 50 mg p.o. q.i.d. , lasix 40 mg p.o. q.day , timoptic0.25% one gtt ou b.i.d. , serax 30 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia ,and iv heparin at 1 , 300 units per hour.allergies: tagamet causes a rash and adhesive tape.social history: notable for a history of tobacco. she quit 17years ago. she uses no alcohol and no iv druguse. she lives with her husband in lau and has six children.family history: her father died of stomach cancer. mother , twoaunts , and sister have history of myocardialinfarction at ages greater than 60.review of systems: the patient has been following her weight sinceher last discharge ( pulmonary edema ). shereports a weight loss from 177 to 175 lb over the last couple ofdays. she reports a 12 lb weight loss in the last month. she hasno complaints of dysuria or cough.physical examination: the patient is a pleasant female , restingcomfortably in bed. her temperature was98.5 , blood pressure 156/68 , pulse 78 , respirations 20 , and 95% ontwo liters. there was no jvd. carotids were 1+ without bruits , nothyromegaly , and no lymphadenopathy. lungs revealed right basilarcrackles. she was using accessory muscles for respirations. heartrevealed regular rate and rhythm , normal s1 and s2. there was aii-iii/vi systolic ejection murmur at the lsb. there was a iii/viholosystolic murmur at the apex radiating to the axilla. there wasno s3 or s4. her abdomen was slightly distended with nohepatosplenomegaly. she was guaiac negative. she had 2+ femoralpulses bilaterally without bruits and 2+ dp pulses bilaterally.there was no ankle edema. neurological examination was grosslyintact.laboratory data: bun was 59 , creatinine 3.9 , hematocrit 28.9 , andmcv 82.3. magnesium was 2.4. chest x-ray fromoutside hospital was consistent with pulmonary edema. ekg revealednormal sinus rhythm at 81 , normal axis and intervals ( qt slightlyincreased at 0.46 ) , lvh , lae. there was t flattening in avl.there were no acute st or t wave changes.hospital course:1. congestive heart failure: the patient was much improved aftersuccessful diuresis with improvementof her pulmonary examination and no evidence of right sidedfailure. she was saturating well on room air. care was taken todiurese slowly in order to present a prerenal insult. she remainedsymptom free for the duration of her hospital course.2. coronary artery disease: the patient denies ever having had anychest pain , but had known anatomy with single vessel disease ( rca ).her history is suggestive of possible silent ischemia consistentwith her diabetic status. her anginal equivalent appears to beshortness of breath. the patient underwent cardiac catheterizationon 11/4/97 with ptca plus stent placement to her rca with a goodresult. she is on ticlid for two weeks. her blood pressure waswell controlled in her target range of 140-160 systolic bloodpressure on hydralazine , lasix , and lopressor. the day followingcardiac catheterization , her hematocrit and creatinine remainedstable at 30.9 and 3.7 , respectively. on 0/9/97 , her creatinineincreased to 4.2. this increase was thought to be due to acombination of prerenal insult in addition to possibledinephropathy. she was hydrated gently and her creatinine waswatched for the next two days , stabilizing in the 4.4 to 4.5 range.3. chronic renal insufficiency: etiology was unknown , possiblysecondary to diabetes mellitus or hypertensive nephropathy. shehas history of creatinine rises to high 3s and 4s during recenthospitalizations. hospital course is as described above. inaddition , axid was changed to renal dosing ( q.day ) and the patientwas treated for a urinary tract infection. in reviewing thehospital records , there is no evidence of previous work up forrenal artery stenosis. this patient with history and physical tocontrol blood pressures and flash pulmonary edema in the setting ofhypertension may benefit from further evaluation of possible renalartery stenosis. this work up was deferred during thishospitalization due to management of acute issues.4. diabetes mellitus: this was stable , diet controlled.5. anemia: the patient was worked up for her baseline lowhematocrit , found to have an iron deficiency anemia treated withniferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. given her underlying renal failure ,there may also be a renally driven component to her anemia and shemay benefit from epogen as an outpatient.the patient was discharged to home in stable condition to follow upwith dr. andre smithe , her cardiologist , in two weeks , and herprimary care physician in one week based on previously scheduledappointment.discharge medications: enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.day ,lasix 40 mg p.o. q.day , hydralazine 50 mgp.o. q.i.d. , isordil 30 mg p.o. t.i.d. , lopressor 25 mg p.o.b.i.d. , nitroglycerin 1/150 one tablet sublingual q. 5 minutestimes three p.r.n. chest pain , timoptic 0.25% one drop ou b.i.d. ,axid 150 mg p.o. q.day , and ticlid 250 mg p.o. b.i.d. for twoweeks. also , niferex tablet 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.discharge instructions: the patient was instructed to have hercbc checked at two weeks and four weeksgiven her ticlid therapy.dictated by: louis liebold , m.d. gs15attending: refugio j. hassell , m.d. ha40mr501/7465batch: 37548 index no. o1ez468s7b d: 2/5/97t: 10/24/97[report_end]