159644670 | vh | 60656526 | | 6334749 | 11/29/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 9/10/2005 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: droegmiller , stanton mddate of discharge: not known at the time of this interimdictation.service: list medical center .primary diagnosis: congestive heart failure.secondary diagnoses: postpartum cardiomyopathy status postmitral valve repair , status post tricuspid valve repair , statuspost icd/pacer placement , asthma , and anemia.history of present illness: this is a 33-year-old female with ahistory of postpartum cardiomyopathy ( ef 15% to 20% ) , status postpacer/icd placement , status post mitral valvereplacement/tricuspid valve replacement , who presents withabdominal pain , decreased appetite , nausea , vomiting , andoccasional chest pain. the patient has had multiple recentadmissions to h/seases medical center .  in october 2005 , thepatient presented with chest pain and was found to be indecompensated heart failure. she ruled out for myocardialinfarction. she was diuresed with torsemide. a mibi prior tothis admission in october 2005 had showed no evidence ofischemia. the patient was more recently readmitted in july2005. during this admission , she underwent mitral valve repairand tricuspid valve repair given severe mitral regurgitation andtricuspid regurgitation. she had a catheterization on 6/12/05 ,which showed normal coronary arteries , no equalization ofdiastolic pressures , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 19 ,and 4+ mitral regurgitation. a tte during this admission showedan ef of 15% to 20% with wall motion abnormalities. she had mildright ventricular enlargement and decreased right ventricularfunction. pulmonary artery systolic pressure was 16 plus rightatrial pressures. she was also found to have a 1.5-cmpericardial effusion. on this admission , the patient's primarycomplaints involve decreased appetite , nausea , vomiting , andabdominal pain. the patient reports frequent vomiting aftermeals. the vomitus is nonbloody and nonbilious. the patientdenies diarrhea , in fact , she has been constipated. her lastbowel movement was on the day of admission , but she did not havea bowel movement four to five days prior to this time. shedenies fever or chills. she denies dysuria or hematuria. shedenies melena or bright red blood per rectum. she reportsintermittent shortness of breath , which she believes to be herbaseline. she denies weight gain , orthopnea , or pnd. thepatient reports occasional tightness in her left chest , whichoccurs a few times each week. there are no associated ischemicsymptoms. the pain is nonexertional and it is pleuritic. in theemergency room , the patient was afebrile with a pulse of 97 and ablood pressure of 98/58. her cardiac enzymes were negative x1.a pe protocol ct was negative for pulmonary embolus. the patientwas noted on this cat scan to have a pericardial effusion. thepatient was seen by the cardiology service who performed abedside echocardiogram , which showed effusion , but no evidence ofright atrial or right ventricular collapse.past medical history:1. congestive heart failure.2. postpartum cardiomyopathy , october 2004.3. asthma.4. status post mitral valve repair , status post tricuspid valverepair , 9/16/05 .5. status post pacer/icd placement in october 2005.6. chronic cough.7. history of hit positivity.8. status post c-section.allergies: the patient has a history of hit.medications: digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. daily , colace , niferex 150 mgb.i.d. , aldactone 25 mg daily , toprol-xl 25 mg daily , k-dur 20meq b.i.d. , torsemide 100 mg p.o. q.a.m. , 50 mg p.o. q.p.m. ,advair , nexium 20 mg p.o. daily , and coumadin ( unclear if thepatient is taking coumadin ).social history: the patient lives with her aunt and herchildren. she has a visiting nurse. she denies tobacco oralcohol use.family history: remarkable for breast cancer.physical examination on admission: temperature 96.6 , pulse 70 ,blood pressure 80/60 , respirations 18 , o2 sat 96% on 2 liters.the patient has no pulses ( 8 mmhg ). the patient is alert and inno acute distress. she is dysphoric. her pupils are equal andreactive to light. extraocular movements intact. oropharynxclear. jvp is 10 cm. there is no kussmaul's sign. heart has aregular rate and rhythm. normal s1 , s2 with 1/6 holosystolicmurmur at the apex. no s3 or s4 were noted. lungs are clear toauscultation bilaterally. abdomen is soft , nontender ,nondistended with normoactive bowel sounds. there is no reboundor guarding. there is no costovertebral angle tenderness.extremities: the patient has trace edema bilaterally. she iswarm and well perfused. she has no calf tenderness. she isalert and oriented x3. her cranial nerves are intact. she has5/5 strength throughout. her affect is dysphoric.laboratory on admission: remarkable for a potassium of 2.8 , bun6 , creatinine 0.7 , white count 10.43 , hematocrit 30.1 , platelets423 , 000 , mcv is 79.4 , inr is 1.4 , ptt 30.9. d-dimer is 3273despite the negative lenis and negative pe protocol ct. firstset of cardiac enzymes is negative. ekg shows normal sinusrhythm at 92 beats per minute with a normal axis. there areoccasional pvcs. there is t-wave inversion/flattening in v2through v6 as well as leads i , avl , ii , iii , and avf. urinalysisshows trace leukocyte esterase , negative nitrites , 4 to 8 whiteblood cells , no red blood cells , and 1+ bacteria. urine hcg isnegative. chest x-ray shows stable cardiomegaly withoutpulmonary edema or infiltrate.hospital course by systems:1. cardiovascular:a. ischemia. the patient reported chest pain on admission. thechest pain was atypical for ischemia and that it wasnonexertional. it was pleuritic and it had no associatedischemic symptoms. in addition , the patient had normalcoronaries on a recent catheterization in 3/22 as well as anonischemic mibi in october 2005. the patient's enzymes werenegative on this admission. the patient was continued on herbeta-blocker.b. pump. the patient has a postpartum cardiomyopathy with anejection fraction of 15% to 20%. she also has a pericardialeffusion on this admission. on admission , there was no evidenceof tamponade by exam or by echocardiogram. the patient had arepeat tte on 10/18/05 , which showed pericardial effusion , whichwas slightly larger than that seen in july 2005. there wasrespirophasic variation , but no collapse. the patient's urineoutput decreased on 8/26/05 and she underwent right heartcatheterization , which showed extremely elevated right and leftfilling pressures ( pulmonary capillary wedge pressure in the 40s ,right atrial pressure 27 ). the patient was initially placed on alasix drip. she was also started on iv dobutamine to maintainher blood pressure and for perfusion while being diuresed. aftera few days on this regimen , the patient had a repeat right heartcatheterization , which showed improved , but elevated left andright filling pressures. a swan catheter was left in place forcloser monitoring of the patient's hemodynamics and to allow fortailored therapy. at the time of this dictation , the patientwill be tried on various inotropes including dopamine anddobutamine with close monitoring of her hemodynamics. thepurpose of this is to assess the effect of these inotropes on herhemodynamics , so there would be a time when she requires inotropetherapy at home. the patient was also maintained on digoxin.her aldactone was changed to eplerenone given the possibilitythat aldactone could be contributing to the patient's gicomplaints. at the time of this dictation , there is a plan inplace to try to add hydralazine/isordil to the patient's regimenfor afterload reduction if her blood pressure can tolerate this.in the past , the patient had suffered severe hypotension whensuch medications have been added.c. rhythm. the patient is status post pacer/icd placement. shewas monitored on telemetry. her telemetry will be followedclosely for any evidence of ectopy while on dobutamine ordopamine.2. pulmonary: the patient has a history of chronic cough. pastchest cts have shown ground-glass opacities most likely due toedema , which have resolved on more recent imaging. pulmonaryfunction test in july 2005 showed an fev1 of 2.06 , fev1/fvc of102 , total lung capacity of 3.09 , and a dlco corrected of 54%predicted. the patient was continued on advair and was givenatrovent p.r.n. as mentioned previously , a pect on admission wasnegative.3. renal/fen: the patient has hypokalemia in the setting ofdiuresis. her electrolytes were monitored b.i.d. and repleted asneeded. the patient's creatinine remained stable less than 1throughout her admission. the patient was maintained on alow-salt , food-restricted diet.4. gi: the patient presented with a number of gi complaintsincluding abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , and anorexia. it isnot clear what the cause of these symptoms is. the patient hadnormal liver function tests. she had a kub , which showed noobstruction. her urine culture showed no evidence of urinarytract infection. it is possible that abdominal pain was due toconstipation or as a side effect of aldactone or even to a lowflow state in the setting decompensated heart failure. thepatient was continued on a bowel regimen and a proton pumpinhibitor. at the time of this dictation , the patient'sabdominal complaints have resolved.5. heme: the patient has a history of iron-deficiency anemia.on admission , her hematocrit was 30 with a mcv of 79.4. thepatient takes iron supplementation at home. this was heldtemporarily in the setting of constipation. the patient alsotakes coumadin for a low ejection fraction. this is also placedon hold in the setting of various procedures including her rightheart catheterizations and pa catheter placement. it should benoted that the patient has a history of hit positive.6. id: on 9/15/05 , the patient had a temperature of 100. thiswas status post placement of a pa catheter. there was concernfor a line infection. blood cultures were drawn and the patientwas started on vancomycin. at the time of this dictation , bloodcultures showed no growths to date , but should continue to befollowed.7. psych: the patient has a history of depression. sheappeared dysphoric on admission , but denied any suicidality.both psychiatry and social work were contacted who followed thepatient during this admission and who have followed the patienton previous admission. the psychiatry service had recommendedremeron for sleep , which the patient was given with good effect.8. prophylaxis: the patient was given pneumoboots early on inher admission and then was out of bed several times each day.she was also given a proton pump inhibitor.9. code: the patient is full code.the events that occur after the time of this dictation , thedisposition , discharge condition , followup , and dischargemedications will be dictated in an addendum to this dischargesummary.escription document: 3-1379082 isfocus transcriptionistscc: cedrick zmuda mda des greendictated by: biel , todattending: kirbie , austindictation id 0714124d: 7/18/05t: 7/18/05