943899991 | sbbmh | 54185176 | | 716558 | 11/10/1993 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 11/10/1993 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/5/1993principal diagnosis: status post myocardial infarction.other diagnoses: 1. congestive heart failure.2. diabetes.3. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.4. peripheral vascular disease.history of present illness: ms. giannone is a 60 year old woman withadult onset diabetes , hypertension , andsevere peripheral vascular disease status post cerebrovascularaccident in 1986 , who was recently admitted to rahjo voychusetts medical center between 7/8/23 with what was presumed to be anexacerbation of her chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and newonset congestive heart failure. pft's during that admission showedfvc of 1.92 , 59% , fev1 of 1.42 estimated at 55% and fev1/fvc ratio94%. an echocardiogram performed during that admission showednormal left and right ventricular function and size. since herdischarge , ms. gieck has become progressively weak and has notedgradually increasing shortness of breath on exertion. she deniesfevers and chills , reports a dry cough but no nausea or vomiting.the cough was nonproductive. she has had poor oral intake , however ,no change in her bowel habits and no symptoms consistent with anupper respiratory tract infection. she denies any episodes of chestpain , however , notes that she requires three pillows to sleep on ,new onset orthopnea and new onset pedal edema. she presented to thesi to the emergency department after havingincreased shortness of breath the night preceding the 6 of july and wasnoted on arrival to the emergency room to have a blood pressure of200/100 with an oxygen saturation on 100% face mask of 85%.portable chest x-ray was consistent with congestive heart failureand she has been on lasix , morphine sulfate , in addition tonebulizer treatment. she initially responded well to thistreatment , diuresing 1.4 liters in urine output and her o2saturation rose to 96% on six liters. at that point , she wastransferred to the floor to the general medical service. pastmedical history: notable for cerebrovascular accident in 1986 ,diabetes mellitus since 1985 , she has been insulin dependent;hypertension; congestive heart failure; chronic obstructivepulmonary disease with a long history of smoking. medications onadmission: xanax .25 mg q hs p.r.n. , lasix 20 mg po q.o.d. ,insulin nph 32 units and 6 units regular q a.m. , enteric coatedaspirin one tablet q day , elavil 25 mg q hs , proventil two puffs q6 p.r.n. allergies: no known drug allergies. family history:notable for both parents who died of myocardial infarctions , motherat age 65 and father at age 75 , both parents also had hypertensionand her mother had diabetes. she has several children , all of whomare in good health. she lives with daughter. she has a sixty packyear history of smoking but no longer smokes and denies any alcoholuse.physical examination: obese , white female in mild respiratorydistress. blood pressure 120/60 , heart rate120 , respiratory rate 16 , temperature 98 with oxygen saturation 94%on three liters. heent exam was notable for normocephalic ,atraumatic head. extraocular movements were intact and pupils wereequal , round , and reactive to light and accommodation. oropharynxwas clear and sclera were also clear and anicteric. neck exam wassupple. jugular venous pressure was 10 cm and the carotids werewithout bruits. neck was without adenopathy. lungs; ralesone-half way up from the bases bilaterally. cardiac exam showedthat she was tachycardic but with a regular rhythm and s1 and s2were heard clearly with an s4 , there were no murmurs or rubs noted.abdomen; notable for positive bowel sounds , soft , non-tender ,non-distended , no hepatosplenomegaly and no other masses felt.extremities; 2+ pitting edema bilaterally with 1+ dp and pt pulsesbilaterally without femoral bruits. rectal exam showed no massesand was guaiac negative. neuro exam; alert and oriented x3.cranial nerves were bilaterally intact and motor strength was 5 outof 5 , and sensation was grossly intact as well as her coordination.reflexes were symmetric and toes were bilaterally down-going.laboratory evaluation: on admission , sodium was 142 , potassium 4.6 ,chloride 106 , bicarbonate 24 , bun 13 ,creatinine 0.7 , glucose 220. lft's were within normal limits.albumin was 3.1 , calcium 9.0 , cholesterol 208 , triglycerides 220.cbc showed a white count of 16 with hematocrit of 34.3 andplatelets 352 , mcv 91. the differential on her white countdemonstrated 82 polys , 12 lymphocytes , 5 monocytes , 1 eosinophil.her first ck was 33 with no mb fraction and an arterial blood gas/showed ph of 7.41 , 31 , 77 , 23 , and 96%. chest x-ray was consistentwith congestive heart failure with bilateral pleural effusions andincreased pulmonary vascular redistribution. ekg showed sinustachycardia at 120 with normal intervals and axis , with someflattening in the stt waves in the lateral lead. urinalysis wasnegative.hospital course: patient was initially admitted to the floor whereshe received another dose of iv lasix and 30 mgpo nifedipine. twenty minutes later , patient was noted to behypotensive with a systolic blood pressure of 70. she was given asmall iv bolus of 100 cc normal saline with no response to hersystolic blood pressure. she was noted to be nauseated and vomitedx1 with midscapular back pain but no chest pain. she was markedlydiaphoretic , but did not complain of palpitations. her blood sugarwas 181 and ekg at that time showed further t-wave flattening ininferior leads. she was started on dopamine 20 micrograms perkilograms with initially no response. at that time , she wastransferred to cardiac unit for further management. in the ccu ,she was weaned from iv dobutamine and her blood pressures rapidlycame up to systolic blood pressure of 130. her requirement foroxygen was weaned from 100% face mask to 3 liters via nasalcannula , with her o2 saturations remaining 94-95%. she was startedon a beta blocker and her rule out protocol for myocardialinfarction showed flat ck's , ck's numbering 33 , 58 , and 147 , withno mb fractions and no further ekg changes , and no further episodesof nausea , vomiting , or diaphoresis. on the third hospital day ,she was transferred to the cardiology lan tempeo service. soon aftertransfer , a routine 12 lead ekg revealed deepening and inversion oft-waves in the lateral leads , as well as the inferior leads. herheart rate at that time was 110 , blood pressure 130/90. she did notcomplain of chest pain , shortness of breath , or diaphoresis.patient was given one tablet of sublingual nitroglycerin with nochange in her heart rate and her blood pressure went to 180/60 andshe complained of a headache. she was given 5 mg iv push lopressorq 5 minutes x3 with response of her heart rate to 90. ekg postintervention was without change and she was maintained on 3 litersoxygen via nasal cannula , without change in her o2 saturation. atthat time , the patient was started on heparin 5 , 000 units iv bolusand maintained at 1200 units per hour , and a rule out protocol wasagain started. her ck's were flat and there were no further ekgchanges. the decision to proceed with cardiac catheterization waspresented to the patient and on the 4th hospital day , the patientinitially refused cardiac catheterization. however , after furtherconsideration , she agreed to cardiac catheterization on the 7thhospital day , 6/4/93 .  because of her history of acute renalfailure with creatinine rising from baseline of 1 to 1.7 onprevious admission with the initiation of captopril , she hadconcurrently an abdominal aortogram to rule out renal arterystenosis. her right heart catheterization showed a pulmonarycapillary wedge pressure of 15 with a diffusely diseased leftcoronary system , right coronary with serial stenoses of 50%proximal and 30% distal , and anterior apical hypokinesis withpreserved lv systolic function. an echocardiogram revealedanteroseptal akinesis at the apex without any mention of thrombus ,moderately dilated left ventricle with ejection fraction estimatedat 30%. it was felt at this time that the patient had sufferedmyocardial infarction at the time between her two sadam medical center admissions. her catheterization results suggested thatshe would be best managed medically and her hospital course thenwas notable for aggressive diuresis with lasix and one time dose ofzaroxolyn , and rate control initially with diltiazem with moderatesuccess and then by the 7th hospital day the addition of lopressor.patient diuresed well with loss of 2-3 kilograms and with decreasein her oxygen requirement was able to be weaned to room air withoxygen saturations 92-93%. by the time of her discharge , her o2saturation was 95% on room air and she was able to ambulate withoutassistance or complaints of chest pain or shortness of breath.id: on admission , patient's white blood cell count was noted to be16 and it was persistently high throughout the first four orfive days of her hospital course. she remained afebrile until the6th hospital day , when she was noted to have one temperature of101. blood culture , urine culture , sputum , and chest x-ray did notreveal any evidence of infection and patient's white count wasnoted to fall to 9.8. no iv antibiotics were given.diabetes; patient was maintained on her normal dose of insulinand except for the day when she went to catheterization ,and covered with czi sliding scale. her blood sugars initially ranin the 200 to 300 range but by the end of admission she was morewell controlled between 100 and 200 , and did not require additionof czi sliding scale. of note , patient had described previousincidences of feeling diaphoretic and hungry in which she would eatpresumably secondary to hypoglycemia. after starting her betablocker , she continued to have these sensations of hypoglycemia andif so , it was though to be safe to continue with the beta blockertreatment.peripheral vascular disease; patient has a history of femoralstenosis and had been suggested thatshe have a femoral angioplasty several years previously. patientrefused that procedure at the time and has had no furthercomplications. during this admission a renal arteriogram wasperformed , which showed no evidence of renal artery stenosis with amild non-flow in the stenosis in the right renal artery. renalcortex was smooth by arteriography.disposition: there were no complications. patient was able toambulate and was stable on discharge. her congestiveheart failure was largely resolved , and she was discharged to homewith follow-up to be with dr. carson sequin in cardspar medical center clinic.medications: xanax 0.25 mg po q hs p.r.n.; digoxin 0.25 mg po qday; lopressor 50 mg po b.i.d.; enteric coatedaspirin one tablet po q day; lasix 60 mg po q day; insulin 32 unitsnph in the morning along with six units regular insulin in themorning; elavil 25 mg po q hs. she is to continue with herdiabetic diet with 2100 calories and to have low salt , lowcholesterol diet.dictated by: pollica , dan robattending: jarrett d. sewade , m.d. pu05  ej467/5651batch: 8845 index no. oqknj7556i d: 11/13/93t: 3/23/93cc: 1. junior mayton , m.d. iv49