333638801 | rh | 08202666 | | 2817931 | 5/4/2005 12:00:00 am | coronary artery disease | signed | dis | admission date: 9/10/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/2/2005attending: lesperance , rickie mdprimary diagnoses:1. atrial fibrillation with rvr.2. congestive heart failure.3. sick sinus syndrome.4. delirium.other diagnoses:1. diabetes , newly diagnosed.2. chronic anticoagulation.3. hypertension.4. history of gi bleed.5. prior cva.history of present illness:mr. stonerock is an 89-year-old male with a history of multiplemedication problems , including hypertension , atrial fibrillation ,sick sinus syndrome , history of colon cancer and prostate cancer ,status post embolic stroke in 3/22 , and history of congestiveheart failure with an ef of 40-50% , who presented to theemergency room complaining of two days of increased lethargy. atthat time , he denied cough , chest pain , shortness of breath , pndor orthopnea. in the emergency room , the patient was found tohave a heart rate in the 120s with a new left bundle-branchblock. carotid massage was attempted and the patient blocked to15:1 due to sick sinus syndrome. an echocardiogram was done inthe emergency room , which revealed an ef of 25%. it was feltthat the patient was in acute congestive heart failureexacerbation secondary to the atrial fibrillation with rvr. itwas deemed at that time too dangerous to pharmacologicallyconvert the patient. he was transferred to the coronary careunit for placement of a transvenous pacer.past medical history:1. hypertension.2. arthritis.3. atrial fibrillation , on anticoagulation.4. history of prostate cancer , status post prostatectomy.5. history of colon cancer , status post partial colectomy.6. history of dementia.7. history of gi bleed.8. status post mrsa wound infection.9. status post embolic cva in 6/17/05 .10. sick sinus syndrome.home medications:1. colace.2. coumadin.3. folate.4. synthroid 25 mcg daily.5. toprol 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.6. protonix.7. zyprexa.8. aspirin.allergies:no known allergies.social history:the patient denies cigarette , drug or alcohol use.family history:the patient had a father who died at the age of 63 of a heartattack. there is a family history of colon cancer.physical examination on admission:afebrile , pulse irregular , 125; blood pressure 140/100. pulseoximetry was 97% on 2 liters. general: this is an elderly malein no acute distress. neck: supple , no lymphadenopathy , nothyroid enlargement , jvp at 18 cm with flutter waves. carotidsare 2+ bilaterally. pulmonary: bibasilar rales.cardiovascular: irregular rate and rhythm , tachycardic , s1 , s2normal. no murmurs , rubs or gallops. abdomen: soft , nontenderand nondistended. bowel sounds are present. extremities: warmbilaterally , 2+ pitting lower extremity edema. no clubbing orcyanosis.laboratory studies upon admission:notable for mild elevation of the white blood cell count of 11.0 ,hematocrit of 40.6 , and platelets of 218 , 000. electrolytes werewithin normal limits. the creatinine was mildly elevated at 1.3.bnp was markedly elevated at 7931. coagulation showed an inr of2.9. lfts were within normal limits. cardiac enzymes showed ack of 129 , ck-mb of 5.9 , and an elevated troponin at 0.27. ekg:atrial flutter with rvr , rate in the 120s , and new leftbundle-branch block. chest x-ray: cardiomegaly andcephalization , no acute infiltrate.assessment and plan upon admission:this is an 89-year-old male with a history of sick sinussyndrome , atrial fibrillation , on coumadin , as well as congestiveheart failure , who was admitted for atrial fibrillation/atrialflutter with rvr , and decompensated congestive heart failure. atthe time of admission , the patient was felt to be at risksecondary to his sick sinus syndrome and new left bundle-branchblock. he was felt to be at risk for asystole and symptomaticbradycardia with any blocking agents. therefore , transvenouspacer was scheduled to be placed in the cath lab.hospital course by system:1. cardiovascular:a. rhythm: shortly after admission , the patient had a temporaryventricular pacer placed on 9/13/05 with a heart rate of lessthan 50. after the procedure , the patient was admitted to theccu with atrial flutter with rvr and a rate in the 20s. the ratewas intermittently controlled with a combination of iv digoxinand lopressor. on 6/6/05 , a permanent dual-chamber pacemakerwas implanted with vvi at 50. throughout the next two days , thepatient's heart rate continued to be difficult to control , butimproved with diltiazem. the patient was initiated on anamiodarone load on 8/22/05 .  the following day , he converted tonormal sinus rhythm spontaneously. at that time , he continued tobe ventricularly paced , and the pacemaker was changed to ddd on10/21/05 .  for the remainder of the hospitalization , the patientremained in normal sinus rhythm and was dual-paced without anyrecurrence of arrhythmias. he will be continued on hisamiodarone load , which was 2.9 g upon discharge and we continuedfor a total load of 10 g.b. pump: upon admission , an echocardiogram on 5/23/05 showedan ef of 20-25% with regional wall motion abnormalities noted inthe intraventricular septum , which was akinetic as well as globalhyperkinesis of the left ventricle. on admission , the patienthad indications of heart failure , including increased jvp andbilateral lower extremity edema , as well as pulmonary effusions.the patient was diuresed effectively with low-dose iv lasix. hisadmission weight was 91 kg , and upon discharge , it wasapproximately 87 kg. the patient was given intermittent lasix 10mg iv for diuresis to maintain a negative i&o of 500 ml. upondischarge , the patient may require continued diuresis with homeregimen of p.o. lasix. in addition , the patient was noted tohave marked hypertension throughout his stay. blood pressure wasoccasionally difficulty to control , and at times , required ivnitro drip. systolic blood pressures were noted to as high as180 and as low as 100 with iv nitro drip. the patient's bloodpressure was managed with calcium channel blocker , beta-blocker ,as well as ace inhibitor. upon transfer to the cardiology flooron 10/21/05 , the p.o. diltiazem was increased. upon discharge ,the patient will be continued on a home regimen of lisinopril 10mg p.o. daily , toprol-xl 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , and diltiazemextended release 360 mg p.o. daily. at the time of discharge ,the patient's blood pressure was well controlled with systolicblood pressures ranging from 110 to 120s.c. ischemia: upon admission , the patient had cardiac enzymeelevation with initially 0.27 , which elevated to a max of 1.27 on10/23/05 .  initially , the enzyme elevations were thought to besecondary to demand ischemia in the setting of an elevated heartrate and volume overload. however , the patient underwent acardiac catheterization on 2/25/05 which showed evidence ofcoronary artery disease , two-vessel disease , specifically , therewas a lad proximal 90% lesion as well as diffuse proximal-midstanding 80% lesion , as well as rtlv-br mid discrete 80% lesionbeyond the bifurcation of rpda. on 2/25/05 , the patient had asuccessful roto-ablation , angioplasty , and insertion of threecipher des to the lad resulting in timi 2 flow. on 1/1/05 , thepatient returned to the cath lab , and at that time , he had a desplacement at distal rca. the patient denied a chest painthroughout his stay. upon discharge , he was able to ambulatewithout significant dyspnea on exertion or chest discomfort.2. psychiatry: at the beginning of the hospital stay , thepatient was confused and somewhat agitated. his behavior wascontrolled with haldol as well as p.r.n. ativan. the patient'sconfusion and delirium improved significantly , and the haldol andativan were tapered off. prior to discharge , he was reinitiatedon his home regimen of zyprexa. the patient has a longstandinghistory of dementia. geriatrics consult followed in this caseand advised on titration of a haldol.3. vascular: following the cardiac catheterization , the patientwas noted to have a right femoral bruit. a vacular ultrasoundwas obtained on 7/18/05 and did not show any evidence of an avfistula.4. heme: the patient is on chronic anticoagulation for atrialfibrillation. upon admission , his inr was 2.9 and becameelevated to a supratherapeutic level. therefore , his coumadinwas held. the patient will be reinitiated on coumadin when hisinr is below 2. goal inr will be between 2 and 3.5. endocrine: the patient has a history of hypothyroidism andwas continued on his home dose of synthroid 25 mcg p.o. daily.thyroid function tests were checked and were within normallimits. in addition , the patient was noted to have mildlyelevated fasting blood glucoses during his admission. his bloodsugars ranged from 95 to 182. he was maintained on a regularsliding scale insulin and required only minimal units ofsupplemental insulin. a hemoglobin a1c was ordered , and theresults are still pending at this time.6. gi: the patient was noted to have significant constipationthroughout his stay and was continued on an aggressive bowelregimen , which included colace , senna , lactulose , and dulcolax.the patient has a history of gi bleed. he was noted to have asmall amount of blood in the stools secondary to constipation ,but this was resolved with additional bowel movements. hishematocrit remained stable , with no signs of anemia. the patientdoes have a history of colon cancer for which he underwent acolectomy. he will be followed as an outpatient.7. fen: due to the patient's heart failure , he was placed on a2-liter fluid restriction as well as 2 g salt restriction. thepatient was continued on a low-cholesterol , low-salt diet. dueto his mild sedation with haldol , the patient was evaluated byspeech and swallow and initially placed on mechanical soft dietwith some honey-thick liquids. as his mental status improvedsignificantly , the patient was returned to a house diet ,low-cholesterol , low-fat , with the previous salt and fluidrestrictions. the patient was continued on light scalethroughout his stay.8. id: the patient was noted to have a urinary tract infectionbased on urinalysis upon admission. his culture remainednegative throughout his stay. he was initially givenceftriaxone. initially , he was started on keflex following onpacemaker placement for antibiotic coverage , which wasdiscontinued on 1/12/05 .  the patient remained afebrile , with nosigns of systemic infection throughout his stay.9. prophylaxis: the patient was placed on a ppi. his inrremained subtherapeutic throughout his stay.complications:none.consultants:ep fellow , dr. brosi attending dr. pizzitola .physical examination upon discharge:general: this is a pleasant elderly female in no acute distress ,alert and oriented x3. heent: normocephalic and atraumatic.extraocular motions are intact. pupils are equal , round andreactive to light. neck: supple , no lymphadenopathy.cardiovascular: regular rate and rhythm , no murmurs , rubs orgallops , normal s1 , s2. jvp at 9 cm. respiratory: sparsebibasilar crackles that cleared with cough. abdomen: soft ,nontender and nondistended , bowel sounds present. extremities:trace edema bilaterally , no clubbing or cyanosis. pedal pulsesare palpable. neuro: cranial nerves ii-xii are grossly intact.there will be an addendum to this discharge summary , which willinclude discharge medications and follow-up plans.escription document: 9-4350473 emssten teldictated by: dern , caseyattending: neault , kiethdictation id 2077505d: 7/18/05t: 7/18/05