310947160 | ch | 61430183 | | 4378651 | 3/19/2003 12:00:00 am | congestive heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 3/19/2003 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/25/2003attending: dorian genereux md , phdchief complaint: shortness of breath.history of present illness: ms. muschaweck is an 80-year-old womanwith known history of congestive heart failure and flashpulmonary edema who presents with gradually increasing shortnessof breath for 2 weeks. patient denies any chest pain , nausea ,vomiting , palpitations or syncope. she does acknowledge sittingorthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea for approximately 48hours before admission , no lower extremity edema. she denies anychanges in diet or changes in medical adherence. she states herweight has been about constant at 180 pounds on her home scale.she does note that she has poor exercise tolerance at baselinebut even now unable to perform activities of daily living for 48hours , so she came to the istbern sentne emergency department with herdaughter. she was found to be hypertensive , hypoxic withclinical and chest radiographic evidence of congestive heartfailure. she was treated with oxygen , iv lasix and nitro-pacedin the er and admitted for further treatment of her chfexacerbation. her physical exam revealed a heart rate of 52beats per minute , respiratory rate of 20 , blood pressure of176/74 , and she was satting 97% on 4 l of oxygen. the patientwas in no acute distress , she is pleasant , a little overweight ,alert and oriented times person , place and time. her jugularvenous pressure was approximately 12 cm of water. she did havepulses parvus et tardus , no kussmaul sign. she had ralesone-half way up the pulmonary fields bilaterally. her heart wasregular rate and rhythm , bradycardic. there was a 3/6 systolicmurmur with a slurred s2. her abdomen was benign. she had nolower extremity edema. she had cool extremities and neurologicexam , other than patient being alert and oriented , was nonfocalwith no motor deficits.labs on admission: revealed a sodium of 142 , potassium 4.2 ,chloride 105 , bicarb 26 , bun 31 , a creatinine 1.9 , a glucose of152. a white count within normal limits , a hematocrit of 41.8 , aplatelet count of 289 , calcium 8.8. her coags revealed a ptt of32.7 , an inr of 3.2 , her creatine kinase was 41 , her mb fractionwas 1.9 , her troponin was negative. her bnp , brain natriureticpeptide , was 885. her chest x-ray was consistent with pulmonaryedema. her ekg showed sinus bradycardia at48 beats/minute. no significant st or t-wave abnormalities. nosignificant from change from 1/8 .past medical history: patient has known aortic stenosis with anava of 1.0. she has coronary artery disease status post acute miin 2001 , status post two-vessel cabg , she had the left internalmammary to the lad and a saphenous vein graft to the om-2. shehas atrial fibrillation , for that she is on amiodarone andcoumadin. she has diabetes mellitus. she hashypercholesterolemia , hypertension , peripheral vascular disease ,bladder cancer status post resection.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications on admission:1. amiodarone 300 mg each day.2. aspirin 81 mg each day.3. lasix 120 mg by mouth twice a day.4. zestril 40 mg po each day.5. zocor 40 mg p.o. every night before bedtime.6. niferex 150 mg twice a day.7. insulin nph 48 units in the morning and 4 units in theevening.8. levoxyl 25 mcg each day.9. coumadin 2.5 mg on monday , wednesday and friday , and 3 mg ontuesday , thursday , saturday , sunday.family history: noncontributory.social history: she denied all vises , such as tobacco , alcohol ordrugs. she lives with her daughter , severi .review of systems: as in hpi , no fever , chills , rash , medicationschanges or urinary symptoms.assessment on admission: she was an 80-year-old woman with knowncoronary artery disease here with a chief complaint of worseningshortness of breath consistent with congestive heart failureexacerbation most likely left-sided diastolic dysfunction. therewas no clear etiology , however , dietary or medication issues werenot likely given the patient's excellent awareness andinvolvement in her care. the suspicion was that the patient mayhave had increasing blood hypertension out of control , increasingoxygen demand and creating diastolic function and pulmonaryedema. the role of her aortic valve was unclear , however , theremay have been gradual progression and renal artery stenosiscannot be rule out as an etiology.hospital course:1. cardiovascular: in terms of her cardiovascular system , shewas diuresed with iv lasix and her electrolytes were followedclosely. she came in with a weight of 84.7 kg and left with aweight of 83.7 kg. for two days in the middle she was diuresedwith iv lasix120 mg b.i.d. and she was converted to oral lasix and actuallycontinued her diuresis , in fact after pacemaker placement , whichwill be noted below , she may have actually continued to urinateeven more so on the last day of her admission. her bloodpressure was stable throughout her stay , in the low 100s ,consistently below 150 systolic and above 100 systolic.rhythm: in terms of her rhythm , she was found at several pointsthroughout her stay in the first several days to have bradycardiaconsistent with junctional rhythm and because of her atrialfibrillation treated with amiodarone; it was thought she wouldbenefit from a pacemaker also because of her beta-blocker. so , apacemaker was placed on 6/21/2003 without complications. thepacemaker was a dual-chamber ppm. her inr before it was placedwas 1.7 , and there was some oozing from the site , however , herhematocrit was stable and her hemodynamics were stable for 24hours after the procedure. electrophysiologists analyzed thedevice and found that it was working properly. she is scheduledfor follow up with dr. gutirrez on 4/13/2003 at 9:40 in themorning. she has been advised to limit her driving until thatappointment. she has also been advised that she will not be ableto have an mri in the future. she will be discharged on keflex( cephalexin ) 250 mg p.o. 4 times a day for 3 days on dischargefor her pacemaker and if she has any problems at all with herpacemaker she should call dr. richel attelephone # ( 851 ) 491-7503 , adetc # 33243.2. pulmonary: the patient had pfts done in 9/18 which showedan fvc of 73% of predicted , fev1 of 77% of predicted , and fev1 tofvc ratio of 108% , and fef 25/75 of 80% , a tlc of 50% ofpredicted , an svc of 73% of predicted , a residual volume of 40%of predicted , and an rv/tlc of 72% of predicted. her dlcouncorrected was 44%; her dlco corrected was 44%. during herstay , patient had low o2 saturations at rest ranging from thehigh 80s to the low 90s , but often below 88% and on exertionconsistently in the mid-80% range , not depending on where theprobe was placed. she was unable to be weaned from the oxygenand will be sent home on oxygen. she should be followed up witha ct of the chest. a ct of the chest was done on this admission ,however , it was consistent with chf and other things could not beruled out. of note , on the chest ct there were found to be liverlesions which will be commented on below. the patient shouldalso be worked up for her pulmonary issues.3. radiology: the patient had this chest ct which showedmultifocal bilateral ground-glass opacities in the lungs , diffusehaziness , some septal thickening with slight basil predominance ,multiple borderline mediastinal nodes in the anteriormediastinum , an ap window region with the largest node on image21 measuring 1.3 x 2 cm , there were extensive vascularcalcifications , cardiomegaly with multi-chamber enlargement andparticularly dense coronary calcifications , trace right and leftpleural effusions. visualized organs of the upper abdomendemonstrate multiple ill-defined low attenuation foci in theliver but no other abnormality. review of bone window showsextensive thoracic degenerative change , sternal wires andepicardial pacer leads. the lung findings were consistent withcardiomegaly and chf , but could not rule out other diagnosticpossibilities including atypical pneumonia , hypersensitivity ,pulmonary hemorrhage or less likely lymphangitic tumor. in orderto workup the liver mass , an ultrasound of the abdomen wasattained. the liver showed a mass 2.9 x 2.8 x 2.2 cm , it washyperechoic in the posterior segment of the right lobe of theliver corresponding to the dominant mass seen in the ct of7/21/203 and 11 , gallbladder was normal with no stones ,the biliary tree was normal , as were the right kidney and leftkidney , pancreas , although it was poorly visualized. the spleenwas normal , the aorta was normal , pleural effusion was noted onthe left which was small and prominent hepatic veins were noted.the radiologist's impression was that the ectogenic mass on theright lower lobe of the kidney corresponded in the location ofthe mass reported on prior cts , may be a hemangioma or otherectogenic masses which could not be excluded and he noted thatthe patient could not hold her breath sufficiently well toevaluate the mass with doppler. if indicated , the pmd shouldeither get a nuclear scan , ct , the radiologist suggested mri butthat is now impossible given the pacemaker , for confirmation andfurther evaluation. also , it was noted that she had prominenthepatic veins possibly due to the right heart failure.other issues:4. endocrine: the patient was continued on her levoxyl 25 andher home dose of insulin with good blood sugar controls generallybelow fingerstick of 200.5. heme: the patient was continued on her niferex. herhematocrit was stable throughout her stay with her admissionhematocrit being 41.8 and discharge hematocrit being 38.8. herwhite count also was not elevated. she is discharged with awhite count of 6.8. her inr on admission was 3.2 , her coumadinwas held and 1 mg of vitamin k was given before her procedure.her inr on the day of the procedure , 6/21/2003 , was 1.7 and ondischarge it was 1.3. she will be reinstituted on her samecoumadin level , to follow up with dr. garder and to have hercoumadin level checked on 5/25/2003 and be followed as she was.discharge medications: as admission medicines except #1 , she willbe taking cephalexin for 3 days and that is the only difference.her primary care doctor can consider can titrating her chfmedicines and/or her hypertension medicines.escription document: 9-7893755 lmscc: stanley malekbhdictated by: macentee , ernieattending: lown , lindseydictation id 6788148d: 8/23/03t: 8/23/03