994220903 | ymc | 47066262 | | 2443784 | 6/12/2006 12:00:00 am | peripheral artery disease , congestive heart failure , chronic renal failure | signed | dis | admission date: 5/7/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/1/2006attending: mullaly , dominique theo mdthis is an interim dictation from 7/3/06 through 04 whilethe patient was on the general medicine service.hospital course by system:renal: the patient has chronic kidney disease likely due to herdiabetes mellitus. the patient's postoperative course wassignificant for contrast induced oliguric acute renal failure. arenal consult was obtained on 2/6/06 and the patient was seenby dr. studdard to evaluate her acute on chronic renal failure.dr. cowlin that her acute renal failure may be due to chronickidney disease from renovascular disease or possibly due tointerstitial nephritis in the setting of a drug allergy. thepatient was also seen by dr. shope , erik garret manuel f.from the nephrology department while she was an inpatient. afterconsideration of possibilities causing her acute renal failure ,it was thought that her acute renal failure was most likely dueto cholesterol emboli syndrome given her eosinophilia , stepwiseprogression of renal impairment and her chronic course. thepatient will need to be followed by a nephrologist as anoutpatient. in addition ,the patient has known renal artery stenosis that may havecontributed to her acute renal failure and she did have apossible drug allergy to diuril and perhaps a component of herrenal failure was also due to acute interstitial nephritis. on1/27/06 , the patient developed gross hematuria. at this time ,the urinalysis showed red blood cells but no evidence foratn. this gross hematuria was in the setting of aworsened coagulopathy. she had a renal ultrasound at that timethat was negative for renal obstruction. gradually withresolution of her coagulopathy , the patient's urine outputincreased and her creatinine improved with supportive measuresalone. the patient did have gradual improvement in her urineoutput and her creatinine decreased to 2.8 prior to discharge.the patient is currently off diuretics at this time. dailyweights should be checked and if her weight increases by morethan 3 pounds dr. bockoven should be notified. the patient was alsostarted on calcitriol given elevation of parathyroid hormone.cardiovascular: rate and rhythm: the patient has a history ofatrial fibrillation with a slow ventricular response. thepatient was started on metoprolol 12.5 mg p.o. q.6 h. for ratecontrol , however , this dose was decreased to 12.5 mg p.o. twice aday , given some bradycardia on her telemetry. the patient wasalso started on flecainide 75 mg p.o. q.12 h. she will continueon these two medications upon discharge.congestive heart failure: the patient had evidence forcongestive heart failure and pulmonary hypertension during thishospitalization. the patient did become volume overloaded onphysical examination with an oxygen requirement , elevation of herjvp and shortness of breath. she was diuresed with lasix duringher postoperative course. the patient was transferred to themedical service on 2/10/06 for management of her renal failureand volume overload. the patient did undergo a trial of renallydosed dopamine to see if this medication improved her cardiacoutput and renal function. the patient showed no improvement onthis medication and it was discontinued after a short trial. thepatient's diuresis was discontinued prior to discharge as thepatient did have acute worsening of her renal function , which mayhave been related to over aggressive diuresis. the patient wasinstead started on spironolactone for management of hercongestive heart failure. as stated above , she should have dailyweights checked.ischemia: the patient has no history of coronary artery disease.she was maintained on aspirin , statin and a beta-blocker duringthe admission.hematology: the patient was started on iron supplementation forher anemia in the setting of chronic kidney disease. thepatient's coumadin was held briefly in the setting of acoagulopathy that she developed on 1/27/06 .  the patient wasevaluated by the hematology service and was seen by dr. codilla anddr. vallas from the hematology service for workup of hercoagulopathy. the patient had elevation of her inr to 5.8 and aslight reduction in her hematocrit to 25 , as well as elevation ofher ptt to 97. workup included factor 7 level , mixing study ,anticardiolipin antibody , lupus anticoagulant , von willebrand'spanel , hepatitis b and c testing as well as complement levels.the patient received one unit of packed red blood cells as wellas 2 units of ffp on 1/27/06 as well as vitamin k with muchimprovement in her coagulopathy and increase in her hematocrit toabout 29. the patient should not receive anyheparin flushes. the patient showed no evidence for dic orhemolysis. her coagulopathy was most likely thought to be due toresidual coumadin with factor deficiency in the setting of herdecreased renal clearance. at this time , the results of theinhibitor screen are pending and should be followed up as anoutpatient. the patient was restarted on coumadin prior todischarge. her inr goal is 2 to 3 and her coumadin dosing shouldbe monitored by dr. hynum . her current coumadin dose is 1 mgp.o. once every evening and her most recent inr 1.2. the patientwill follow up with hematology as an outpatient.infectious disease: the patient had a wound culture that grewpseudomonas for which she was briefly treated with a course ofceftazidime. the patient completed a course of ceftazidime andremained afebrile off antibiotics with no signs of activeinfection. a wound care consult was obtained for the patient'sdecubitus ulcer. she should have duoderm dressing applied everythree days to her ulcer.pulmonary: the patient continues to have an oxygen requirementdespite diuresis. she did not show clinical signs of pneumonia.her oxygen requirement is thought to be due to atelectasis ,deconditioning , as well as her known congestive heart failure andlikely pulmonary hypertension. she requires supplemental oxygenat 2 liters nasal cannula to maintain oxygen saturations in themid 90s. this should be continued at her rehabilitation.endocrine: the patient has a history of diabetes and wasfollowed by the diabetes nursing service during her stay. shewas on avandia during the admission in addition to lantus andnovolog before meals. upon discharge , the patient will be onavandia 4 mg p.o. every noon as well as novolog 4 unitssubcutaneous before every meals in addition to a novolog slidingscale. the patient was also started on thyroid supplementationand will be on synthroid as an outpatient.fluids , electrolytes and nutrition: the patient had hyponatremiathought to be in the setting of volume overload and total bodywater excess. this improved somewhat with diuresis. inaddition , the patient developed dysphagia with liquids during herhospitalization. she was evaluated by the speech and swallowservice and had evidence of aspiration on bedside swallowexamination as well as video swallow examination. the patientwas also evaluated by the ent service and was seen by dr.cassetty on 11/26/06 .  on laryngoscopy , she was found to have aleft vocal cord paralysis. she underwent mri imaging of her neckand chest. she did not have any evidence of mediastinal mass andno abnormalities of the recurrent laryngeal nerve were seen.gradually , the patient has had some mild improvement in herhoarseness and dysphagia. she benefits from turning her head tothe left with each swallow to minimize the risk of aspiration.the patient was also followed by the nutrition service throughouther hospital stay.vascular: the patient is status post left femoral distal bypasson 8/21/06 .  the patient continued to be followed by thevascular surgery service during her hospitalization. she shouldhave three t.i.d. wet-to-dry dressings applied to her left lowerextremity up to her thigh daily. she will follow up in vascularclinic with dr. skreen in two weeks upon discharge.allergy: the patient had a diuril induced drug rash. she showedno signs of mucous membrane involvement and no signs ofstevens-johnson syndrome.prophylaxis: the patient was placed on a ppi as well as hercoumadin.disposition: the patient was followed by the physical therapyservice while an inpatient and will benefit from inpatientrehabilitation.discharge medications: tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.8h. as needed forpain , aspirin 81 mg p.o. once a day , allopurinol 100 mg p.o. oncea day , amitriptyline 10 mg p.o. twice a day , plavix 75 mg p.o.once a day , aranesp 40 mcg subcutaneous q. week , benadryl 25 mgp.o. every six hours as needed for itching , colace 100 mg p.o.twice a day , flecainide 75 mg p.o. q.12h. , novolog sliding scalebefore meals and every evening - if fingerstick less than 125give zero units , if fingerstick 125-150 give 2 units , iffingerstick 151-200 give 3 units , if fingerstick 201-250 give 4units , if fingerstick 251-300 then give 6 units , if fingerstick301-350 then give 8 units , if fingerstick 351-400 then give 10units and call physician if fingerstick greater than 400 or lessthan 70 , novolog 40 units subcutaneous before meals - pleasehold if n.p.o. , levothyroxine 75 mcg p.o. once daily , milk ofmagnesia 30 ml p.o. daily as needed for constipation , metoprolol12.5 mg p.o. q.6h. -hold if systolic blood pressure less than 90or heart rate less than 55-to be discontinued after one day. the patient willthen be started on nadolol 20 mg po qday , niferex 150 mg p.o.twice a day , protonix 40 mg p.o. once a day , avandia 4 mg p.o. to be given atnoon daily - please hold if n.p.o. , sarna topical daily , zocor 20mg p.o. at bedtime , coumadin 1 mg p.o. once every evening , tuckspr daily , spironolactone 25 mg p.o. once daily , calcitriol 0.25mcg p.o. once daily.follow up appointments:1. dr. petramale , 317-001-4753 , hsey ochap debo healthvascular surgery in two weeks.2. dr. mucci , 151-030-7040 in two weeks.3. dr. wailes , 187-364-7139 , hematology at beplatte a hospital inone month.4. nephrologist follow up to be arrangeddiet: mechanical soft honey consistency. advance as tolerated.ada 2000 calories a day , 2 grams potassium a day renal diet.activity: walking as tolerated.to do:1. wound care for decubitus ulcer.2. follow appointments with primary care physician , hematology ,nephrology , and vascular surgery.3. please check fingersticks before meals and every evening.4. please follow inr every two days with goal inr of 2-3 oncoumadin.5. please measure daily weights. if weight increases by threepounds , please notify dr. crisler .6. t.i.d. wet-to-dry dressings to be applied to the left lowerextremity up to the thigh.disposition: the patient is a full code.escription document: 0-8683953 cssten teldictated by: geeding , jerrodattending: hugueley , rosario omardictation id 9262181d: 2/13/06t: 2/13/06