931671366 | rh | 06109053 | | 276286 | 2/2/2002 12:00:00 am | sciatica | signed | dis | admission date: 10/11/2002 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/27/2002chief complaint: sciatica.history of present illness: forty-six-year-old fell out of bedyesterday reaching for something. shefell on her coccyx. she had no loss of consciousness , no headtrauma. she was unable to get up secondary to pain and bodyhabitus. ems was called and returned patient to bed , however , sherefused to come into the hospital in spite of her pain. thefollowing morning she was still with consider lower back andbuttock pain radiating to her right leg. she took her normaloxycodone and vicodin doses without relief , and ems brought thepatient to the hospital. the patient states that pain is likeprevious episodes of sciatica , radicular pain , but exacerbated byher fall. in the emergency department , patient was afebrile , vitalsigns stable. she received ativan , motrin , dilaudid with littleeffect. plain films were negative for fracture. she was unable toambulate , and therefore admitted.past medical history: significant for insulin-dependent diabetesmellitus , myocardial infarction non-q-waveseptember , 2001 , a micu admission during that time , in september , 2001 ,for urosepsis , diabetic ketoacidosis and this non-q-wave mi. also ,sciatica with previous history of a herniated disc l5-s1 , questionobstructive sleep apnea with mild pulmonary hypertension byprevious echo.past surgical history: total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateralsalpingo-oophorectomy complicated by woundinfection.medications: zocor , zestril , aspirin , toprol , morphine , insulinand vicodin.studies: september , 2001 , mibi showed an old , moderately sized miin mid lad distribution with moderate residualperi-infarct ischemia. an september , 2001 , echo showed leftventricular ejection fraction 50% , hypokinesis in the inferiorseptum , mildly enlarged rv , pulmonary artery pressures of 39 plusra , suggestive of mild pulmonary hypertension and mild mr and tr.laboratory data: on admission , labs were significant for a glucoseof 121 , creatinine 1.4 , baseline was one ,potassium of 5.2 , ck of 355 , a ua with plus two leukocyte esterase ,85 whites , plus two bacteria.physical exam: patient had temperature of 99 , heart rate 67 ,respirations of 17 , blood pressure 130/50 , andsaturation 97% on room air. she was in no distress. she wasobese. she had no head trauma. her neck was supple , normal s1 ,s2. her lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. her abdomenwas markedly obese , positive bowel sounds , nontender. she had askin abrasion on her left elbow. she had no spinal tenderness , nopelvic tenderness. she was unable to raise her right leg secondaryto pain. she did have pain with straight leg left on the right.she had normal sensation in upper and lower extremities.hospital course: patient was admitted and was scheduled to undergoan mri for evaluation of acutely herniated discat an outside facility at y wau topelum , secondary to not being able tofit within the coils at our own facility. however , she was unableto receive this mri secondary to inability to have assistance withtransfer of her when she reached the facility. initially , her painwas managed with both immediate-release and sustained-releasemorphine and valium for spasm. she also received around-the-clockhigh-dose nsaids and was evaluated by physical therapy andnutrition. her uti was treated with bactrim. on hospital daythree , her creatinine jumped to 2.9 from 1.4. she was alsohyperkalemic to 5.9. her nsaids were stopped and neurontin wasdced secondary to somnolence. however , she continued to haveworsening renal failure , hypertension and somnolence , and blood gasshowed primary respiratory acidosis , hypercarbia and she wasultimately transferred to the micu for intubation for airwayprotection secondary to aspiration. by april , her creatinine hadreturned to baseline. she was extubated without complications.her renal function was presumed to be secondary high-dose nsaids ,and her intubation was deemed to be secondary to a primaryrespiratory acidosis from opioid intoxication exacerbated by renalfailure. issues are as follows by systems:pulmonary: overnight pulse oximetry was performed , which will beanalyzed to assess for obstructive sleep apnea. patient will mostlikely need a form of sleep study at rehabilitation or as anoutpatient to address this obstructive sleep apnea issue. datafrom this admission do not support a diagnosis of obesityhypoventilation syndrome , because there was no daytime hypercapniaby both abgs and chem-7 panel.renal: acute renal insufficiency resolved with hydration ,withdrawal of nsaids. we will hold her ace inhibitor secondary torecent renal failure , and she will need to have this evaluated intwo weeks or so.infectious disease: the patient with low-grade fevers on empiriclevofloxacin and flagyl day seven of 14 for aspiration pneumoniasuffered during hypocarbic respiratory arrest. the patient wasalso placed on two days of vancomycin , after one of the bloodcultures in the icu grew coagulase negative staph. all culturessince then have been negative. patient also had two episodes ofliquid stool on flagyl , day six. she was already receiving therapyfor c. difficile. because she has been in the hospital more thanthree days , an o&p is very low yield. stool cultures and a repeatchest x-ray will be done if clinical worsens tomorrow.neurologic: patient with known small right lateral recess discherniation impinging on right nerve root at l5-s1. she hasprevious received steroid injections for this and has refusedsurgery secondary to very bad experience with the total abdominalhysterectomy complicated by wound infection. she has had an acuteexacerbation of this pain with her fall. we were unable to obtainan mri at outside facility because of her body habitus and need forassistance with movement. she would benefit from aggressive pt andpain control with eventual surgery if these more conservativemeasures fail.pain: the patient was oversedated on pain medications and wasactually intubated for the need to balance desire to alleviate painwith need for patient to have adequate respiratory drive.endocrine: continue nph and czi and ada diet. will begin meridia.patient also seen by nutrition and was given number for weight lossprogram.cv: non-q-wave mi in september , 2001. patient with preserved ef , novalve disease. will continue current cardiac regimen. will needto restart ace inhibitor in two to three weeks , now that renalfailure resolved.prophylaxis: subcutaneous heparin , protime pump inhibitor , anddulcolax and lactulose p.r.n. for constipation while on narcotics.social: i have written a letter regarding the patient's need forfirst-floor apartment secondary to inability to use stairs. it isin her chart.additional comments: please monitor patient carefully foroversedation on current medications. patient will need sleep studyto rule out obstructive sleep apnea.discharge condition: stable.discharge medications: tylenol 650 mg p.o. q. six hours for pain ,albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg nebulizer q.four hours p.r.n. wheeze , aspirin enteric-coated 81 mg p.o. q.d. ,dulcolax 10 mg p.r. q.d. p.r.n. constipation , valium five mg p.o.t.i.d. muscle spasm , hold if oversedation or respiratory rate lessthan 10 , and call ho , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , fentanyl patch 50mcg per hour t.p. q. 72 hours , hold respiratory rate less than 10 ,oversedation , heparin 10 , 000 units subcutaneously b.i.d. , nphhumulin insulin 35 units q.a.m. , 25 units q.p.m. , hold if bloodsugar less than 100 , czi insulin sliding scale subcutaneously ,blood sugars less than 200 give 0 units , if blood sugar is 201 to250 , give four units , if blood sugar is 251 to 300 , give six units ,if blood sugar is 301 to 350 give eight units , if blood sugar is351 to 400 give 10 units and call house officer , magnesiumgluconate sliding scale p.o. q.d. , lopressor , metoprolol tartrate37.5 mg p.o. q.i.d. , hold systolic blood pressure less than 90 ,heart rate less than 55 , flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. x seven moredays , oxycodone 10 mg p.o. q. six hours p.r.n. pain , holdoversedation , respiratory rate less than 10 , senna tablets twotablets p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. constipation , zocor 10 mg p.o. q.h.s. ,neurontin 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , hold oversedation , levofloxacin 500mg p.o. q.d. x seven days , micolazole two-percent powder topicalt.p. q.d. , instructions - place in skin folds , nexium 20 mg p.o.q.d. , trazodone 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. sleep.dictated by: marcelino bartz , m.d. we48attending: harold wilshusen , m.d. iu98  ld753/752112batch: 0655 index no. utzcgi18i6 d: 10/8/02t: 1/6/02