228310505 | nmc | 03975388 | | 279953 | 4/17/1996 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 4/17/1996 report status: signeddischarge date: 8/23/1996diagnosis: 1 ) left thigh cellulitis , left thigh abscess , statuspost i&d.2 ) acute renal failure.history of present illness: mrs. bradham is a pleasant 52 year oldobese black female with history ofdiabetes , chronic lower extremity venous stasis , history ofcellulitis who presented with left lower extremity pain , edema , anderythema. the patient has had a long history of diabetes since1984 for which she has been treated with diet and glyburide withpoorly controlled blood sugars until metformin was added inoctober of 1996. in the past five years the patient has alsobecome morbidly obese with a weight of greater than 200 pounds.since 1995 she has noted development of significant bilateral lowerextremity swelling. in october of 1996 she was treated for diabeticstasis ulcers on both of her legs with cellulitis requiring home ivantibiotics. part of the bilateral lower extremity swelling wasattributed to the presence of a large uterine fibroid which wasthought to be compromising venous return. her massive edema wastreated unsuccessfully with lasix.the patient was doing well until about a week prior to admissionwhen she developed some diarrhea consisting of two to three bowelmovements a day. her stool was watery brown without any blood ormucus. she also reported some nausea and vomiting as well aschills. she believes that she had fevers , but these temperatureswere not measured. one day after the onset of her diarrhea thepatient noted the development of burning pain on her left anteriorthigh just above her knee. this was associated with increasederythema and mildly increased swelling in that area. she reportsthat her diarrhea , there had been stool running down her left thighthe previous day. this area of erythema on her left legsubsequently spread to the lateral surface of the thigh and wasassociated with increasing pain. the pain was so severe that itprevented the patient from her daily activities and from walking.the patient presented to the emergency department on 4/8 forworsening of her lower extremity pain and decreased p.o. intake.on the day of admission the patient states that her diarrhea hadresolved and that she has had no abdominal pain. she has had nochest pain or shortness of breath or any other localizing signs ofinfection except her left leg. on admission she was found to havea temperature of 100 degrees fahrenheit and she was placed in theshort stay unit. subsequently her admission labs were noted toreveal elevated lfts and an elevated bun and creatinine with awhite blood cell count of 35 , 000. because of these abnormalitiesand renal failure , the patient was transferred out of the shortstay unit to the general medicine team for further care.past medical history: noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus.bilateral lower extremity edema with chronicvenous stasis changes. history of cellulitis. history ofhypertension. uterine fibroid. hypercholesterolemia.osteoarthritis. hemoglobin c trace.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications on admission: glyburide 5 mg b.i.d. lisinopril 20 mgb.i.d. lasix 80 mg q a.m. metformin500 mg b.i.d. naprosyn 375 mg b.i.d. p.r.n.medications on transfer from short stay unit: ancef 1 gram iv q 8.colace 100 mg b.i.d.insulin sliding scale. lisinopril 20 mg b.i.d.family history: notable for a sister with diabetes mellitus.social history: the patient denies alcohol , cigarettes , or druguse. the patient lives in sa na oak and caresfor four young grandchildren.physical examination: the patient was an obese , pleasant , africanamerican woman in no apparent distress. hertemperature was 99.4 , blood pressure 110/74 , pulse rate of 92 ,respiratory rate 20 , o2 sat 96% on room air. her heent exam wasnonicteric with moist oropharynx and no lesions. the neck wassupple without any lymphadenopathy. she had a right ej iv line.there were no carotid bruits. her lungs were clear to auscultationwith no cva tenderness. her heart was regular rate and rhythm.there was a faint s4 and a loud p2 component to the s2 sound. herabdominal exam was obese , non-positive for bowel sounds. there wasmild tenderness over the periumbilical region with some fullness/suggestion of a mass. there was no rebound or guarding , no rightupper quadrant tenderness , no hepatomegaly/splenomegaly ( examlimited by obesity ). her extremity exam revealed marked bilateralswelling in both lower extremities with chronic stasis changes.there were multiple venous plaques on the pretibial areas of bothlegs with one venous plaque being ulcerated on the right pretibarea. examination of her left thigh revealed a patch of erythemaand warmth that was very tender to the touch. neurologic exam wasalert and oriented times three , intact cranial nerves iii-xii.there was slight decrease in sensation in the patient's lowerextremity , left greater than right to pin sensation. her motorexam was otherwise unremarkable. her rectal exam was reported tobe guaiac negative per the emergency department.laboratories on admission: sodium 133 , potassium 5.2 , bun 43 , andcreatinine of 3.7. the patient's lastcreatinine value on record was in september of 1996 which was 0.6. herlfts revealed an alt of 71 , ast of 57 , ldh 717 , alkalinephosphatase 196 , total bilirubin 1.1 , direct bilirubin 0.6. heramylase was 8. her albumin was 2.1 and her calcium was 8.2. hercbc on admission revealed a white cell count of 34 , 000 , hematocritof 29 , and platelets of 624 , 000. the differential on the whiteblood cell count was 78 polys , 38 bands , 6 lymphs , 3 monocytes , andno eos. her mcv on her hematocrit was 77. her pt and ptt wereboth within normal limits. her urinalysis revealed 3+ protein , 1+leukocyte esterase , 8-12 white blood cells , 20-25 red blood cells ,and 2+ squamous epithelial cells.chest x-ray on admission revealed low lung volumes with possibleleft total effusion that was blurring left lower lobe air spacedisease. abdominal ultrasound performed on admission revealed nohydronephrosis , a normal liver biliary system. study was limitedsecondary to body habitus. lower extremity non-invasive studiesrevealed no evidence of deep venous thrombosis. however , exam waslimited secondary to habitus.hospital course: by issues:1. left thigh cellulitis: the patient was started on ancefrenally dosed for her left thigh cellulitis. her legs were keptraised and her white blood cell and fever curves followed. aninfectious disease consult as well as a dermatology consult wasobtained to assist with antibiotics as well as dressing for herlower extremity changes. blood cultures and wound cultures sentdid not reveal any organisms. because of the patient's very highwhite blood cell count , the id consult team was concerned for thepossibility of toxic shock syndrome; therefore , clindamycin iv wasalso added to her regimen of antibiotics. also per idrecommendation , stool cultures were sent for e. coli 0167: h7 whichwas negative. although there was an initial fall in the patient'swhite count during the first several days of antibiotics , thiswhite count subsequently began rising again. this was associatedwith continued poor resolution of the pain in the patient's leftthigh and perhaps worsening erythema. because the patient's leftleg did not appear to be getting better on antibiotics , a surgicalconsult was obtained to rule out a deeper seated infection in thepatient's thigh. imaging of the patient's leg with mri wasattempted but was unsuccessful secondary to the patient's largesize. a ct of both of her legs were obtained instead whichrevealed no evidence of an abscess in her left leg , however , it didincidentally detect a large effusion in the patient's left knee.one week after admission the patient noted acute worsening of thepain in her left knee. because of the known left knee effusion , aconcern for a septic knee joint was raised. a rheumatology consultwas obtained. the left knee was tapped using ultrasound guidanceremoving 20 cc of turbid knee fluid. studies on the left kneeeffusion revealed 13 , 000 white blood cells with negative gram stainand negative crystal exam times 3. cultures of the left knee fluiddid not grow any organisms. despite these findings , we were stillconcerned that this was a partially treated septic joint given thepatient had been on antibiotics for one week. for this reason anorthopedic consult was obtained and the patient was taken to the orfor possible debridement. on 6/19 the patient was taken to theoperating room where an abscess on the left lateral distal thighwas found and drained. a total of approximately 20 cc of pus wasremoved by dr. sudler . there was no connection between the puscollection and the left knee effusion. after the drainage , thepatient's clinical status improved dramatically with a decrease inher white count and increased mobility of her leg. she wascontinued on ancef iv and p.o. ofloxacillin which had been addedfor gram negative coverage. the clindamycin was subsequentlydiscontinued. on the day prior to discharge the patient's whiteblood cell count had fallen to 10 , 000. she remained afebrile.2. renal: on admission the patient was noted to have a creatinineof 3.7 with a baseline known to be 0.6 in september of 1996. however , onsearching through the patient's records it appears that the patienthad been noted to have increased proteinuria since september of 1996.the acute renal failure was initially thought to be secondary todehydration; the patient was given iv hydration with no improvementin her creatinine. for that reason , a renal consult was obtainedon the third day of admission. it was the impression of the renalservice that the patient's acute renal failure was likelymultifactorial secondary to a combination of diabetic nephropathy ,low albumin , volume loss secondary to diarrhea , infection , andmedications which included nsaids as well as ace inhibitor. forthat reason , the patient's nephrotoxic medications , which includelisinopril and metformin , were discontinued. the patient'selectrolytes and volume status was followed closely for the rest ofthe course of the hospitalization with continued gradualimprovement. her creatinine peaked at 4.7. on discharge thepatient's creatinine had resolved back to 2.2.3. right upper extremity swelling: on the day after the patientreturned from the operating room for the drainage of her leftthigh , she was found to have new onset of swelling in her right armand breast. initially we were concerned for the presence of aright upper extremity deep venous thrombosis. upper extremitynon-invasive studies were obtained which were negative for anyclots. an echocardiogram was also obtained showing no evidence ofright heart dysfunction. a nuclear flow study was also attemptedbut was unsuccessful because of the failure to obtain venous accesson the patient's right arm. the leahgulf mary katon hospital team was alsoconsulted regarding the use of heparin. however , given that thepatient had poor access and had an anemia , it was decided that thepatient would not be heparinized. her right upper extremityswelling was observed closely and with elevation of the right armover the next few days gradually resolved without anycomplications. on the day prior to discharge a repeat right upperextremity ultrasound was obtained which revealed no evidence ofblood clots in her right arm.4. hematology: on admission the patient was found to have a lowhematocrit with a low mvc. iron studies were performed whichrevealed the likely presence of iron deficiency. for that reasonthe patient was placed on iron sulfate 30 mg t.i.d. the patientwas guaiac negative , thus ruling out evidence of a chronic gibleed. the patient's anemia is also likely a reflection of herrenal dysfunction.5. gi: although the patient had experienced some diarrhea priorto admission , her diarrhea resolved in the hospital. all of herstool studies were negative. abdominal ultrasound revealed noabnormalities in the patient's liver or biliary system to accountfor the mild transaminitis found on admission. it is likely thatthe patient had a bout of viral gastroenteritis a few days prior toadmission which resolved spontaneously.disposition: to hi health .discharge medications: ancef 1 gram iv q.8h. times 14 days.ofloxacin 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. times 14 days.lotrimin topical applied b.i.d. to toes and webs of toes. nystatinpowder topical b.i.d. applied to groin area. polysporin ointmenttopical applied to right pretibial ulcer with dressing. ironsulfate 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. atenolol 50 mg q day. oxycodone 5-10mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain. miracle cream p.r.n. colace 100 mgp.o. b.i.d.additional instructions: the patient will require , at mai memorial hospital ,dressing changes on her left leg p.r.n.saturation ( probably at least q shift ) with 4 x 8 kerlix/abdpads/kerlix wrap with fine dry bulky soft dressing.the patient is discharged with iv ancef for an additional 14 daysas well as p.o. ofloxacin for 14 days. the patient will requirefollow-up with a doctor while at hightalon geer of health to determine changes inthe antibiotics regimen. as for the patient's right pretibialulcer , that will require daily wet to dry dressing with theapplication of polysporin.condition on discharge: stable.follow-up: the patient is to be followed up by her primary mmcdoctor to be arranged.dictated by: genaro f. magsayo , m.d. rm6attending: giovanni t. hranchak , m.d. nm11  oi674/3249batch: 1207 index no. xzria28ilr d: 2/15/96t: 2/15/96cc: 1. jude n. ruhmann , m.d.2. dr. thiesfeld