record date: 2070-03-16name:    vines, stephenmrn:      1672569stephen comes in today.  he has been feeling pretty well.  really has no newcomplaints.  he still has 5 block claudication in his calves and he continues to smoke a half pack per day.  his neuropathy is stabilized and his sugars have been good forthe most part in the 140-150 range on insulin.  his weight has been stable.  he hashad no shortness of breath or chest pain and his review of systems is otherwisenegative.habits: smokes about a half pack per day.  does not drink, not really getting muchexercise.  his legs hurt only when he walks over 5 blocks.  it doesn't hurt when he isworking in the mccormick company.physical exam: he looks well.  his blood pressure is 142/80.  his pulse is 74and regular.  respirations are 16. lungs are clear.  no worrisome skin lesions. nobruits.  1+ carotids.  abdomen is soft and nontender, no hepatosplenomegaly, nopulsatile masses, no bruits. decreased pulses in the feet and decreased capillary refilland decreased sensation of vibration and fine touch.assessment and plan:  (1)  diabetes.  will check his hemoglobin a1c to see where we stand.  continue     on his current regimen.  encouraged him to increase his exercise and watch his     diet.  he has an eye exam scheduled.  his feet look okay, though we will have     to be careful given his neuropathy and peripheral vascular disease.(2)  claudication.  once again, talked to mr. vines about the absolute     importance of quitting smoking.  he is going to try using the wellbutrin.  gave     him a prescription for #60.  he will take one a day for 3-4 days and then go     up to 1 p.o. b.i.d.  he has no contraindications. i also encouraged him to use     the patch.  hopefully, we will be able to get him off the cigarettes.  i also     encouraged him to walk until it hurts at least 3-4 x a day to try and train his     legs.(3)  hypertension.  our goal is to get his blood pressure down about 130.  will     increase the mavik to twice a day.(4)  hyperlipidemia.  well controlled on lipitor.  recheck his lipids.(5)  neuropathy.  stable.  he doesn't feel the need for any medication for it.(6)  hpdp.  will check his guaiac cards.  he is not interested in a sigmoidoscopy.      he has had a pneumovax.  patient will follow up with me in 3 months.   scott phipps, m.d.sp/irons/quang