003049719 | cho | 79975460 | | 376642 | 1/12/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 1/12/1994 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/25/1994principal complaint: spinal stenosis.history of present illness: the patient is a 54 year-old femalewho complained of lower back pain andbilateral leg pain. she noted that in , october of 1993 , she hadthe onset of some low back pain , and in october of 1993 , it wentdown into her lower extremities. the pain is currently in thelower back and bilateral buttocks , to the bilateral knees , and allaspects of her legs below the knee. she reports diminishedsensation of the anterior aspect of her leg on the right side , butthis has only occurred once on the left side. she has no motorcomplaints and denies any bowel or bladder dysfunction. her painis specifically made worse with walking. she cannot walk even asfar as a block before she has to stop and sit. she alsodemonstrates transition pain when she gets up , in and out of a bedor chair. she has diabetes , and has been on insulin for eightyears. in the past , for her back , her treatment has consisted ofmotrin , and three epidural steroid injections. two were done inoctober .  the second obtained approximately 80% relief for threemonths. the last one was of no help whatsoever. her x-rays onreview shows that she has degenerative spondylolisthesis at l4-l5.her ct scan and mri scan both demonstrate the presence of a slip atl4-l5. there is rather marked l4 neural foraminal narrowingbilaterally , with only some narrowing of the lateral recesses ofthe canal. the distribution of her pain sounds most likely to beof l4 nerve root.past medical history: significant for insulin dependent diabetesmellitus with retinopathy , atypical anxietydisorder , aortic stenosis with history of rheumatic fever , andglaucoma in the left eye , and congenital nystagmus , and amblyopia.past surgical history: left knee arthrotomy; right ankle openreduction , internal fixation; right carpaltunnel , and cervical laminectomy.allergies: elavil , zomax and naprosyn.medications: insulin , nph , 8 units subcu q. day; prozac 10 mgp.o. q. day , and timolol .5% , one gtt o.s. b.i.d.physical examination: the patient is slightly obese , and standswith a normal alignment. she can reach herhands down to her ankles. extension is about 20 degrees , andcauses bilateral posterior si and leg pain. reflexes are all 3+ inthe lower extremities. the toes are upgoing and in clonusbilaterally. this spasticity has been noted in the past by dr.ferandez , jqch neurologist , who followed her for quite a long timefor this problem. romberg exam is negative. pulses are 1+dorsalis pedis , and trace in the posterior tibial bilaterally.detailed sensory/motor exam of the lower extremities reveals nodeficit , but she does have significant spasticity. indeed , it isactually difficult to test her ehl and anterior tibial with herknees extended , as she has marked plantar flexion and tone in thatregion with the knees flexed. the patient is able to demonstrategood ehl and anterior tib function. straight leg was negativebilaterally. hip range of motion is normal and pain free.patrick's test was negative. femoral stress test was negative. ofnote , the patient had an old medial left knee scar surgery. thepatient was afebrile. vital signs stable. heent was within normallimits. lungs were clear to auscultation. heart was regular rateand rhythm with a ii/vi systolic murmur , and no radiation to thecarotid. abdomen was soft , non-distended , non-tender. nosplenomegaly was noted.hospital course: the patient underwent posterior decompressionwith l4-l5 and pedicle screw fixation with iliaccrest bone graft , as well as a discectomy at l4-l5 , and completeforaminotomies of l4 root bilaterally. the patient receivedapproximately 6 liters of lactated ringer's , one liter of hespan ,500 cc of albumin , 3 units of packed red blood cells , 2 units ofcell saver. estimated blood loss was 2000 cc. the patient didwell postoperatively , with her physical therapy , and mobilizingwell. of note , the patient did spike a fever to 102.2; however ,her workup was only significant for atelectasis on her chest x-ray ,and trace leukocytes in her urine , with cultures being negative.of note , the temperature was associated with dysuria. thus , thepatient was started on bactrim , one p.o. b.i.d. times 10 days. thepatient did well in physical therapy , and was discharged onpostoperative day five. the patient is discharged to home withcaa st,hos hospital .disposition: discharged to home with full xasden community hospital .follow up: the patient will follow up with dr. deener at opbh .condition on discharge: stable.medications on discharge: niferex 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , bactrim ds ,one p.o. b.i.d. times 10 days , colace100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , timoptic .5 , one drop o.s. b.i.d. , nph 8 unitssubcu , prozac 10 mg p.o. q. day.dictated by: rupert malena , m.d. au6attending: josh r. snare , m.d. mz78  tj955/0454batch: 489 index no. pjdo8q0h6h d: 9/26/94t: 9/26/94