record date: 2103-09-02september 02, 2103odessia kay, m.d.willow pointe assisted living center600 cherry streetaumsville, ia 63482re:  dalila haynes       783-61-34-3dear dr. kay: i saw dalila haynes today in consultation concerning the possibility of neurosarcoidosis.  she comes with her daughter who assists with the history.  i will review her history for the record.she is a 69-year-old right-handed woman who was hospitalized at the promptcare in july 2103 for evaluation of mental and motor slowing, memory loss, and weight loss.  her daughter notes that she had deteriorated over the course of a month or two.  her movements slowed down, and she became unsteady on her feet, and her memory deteriorated.  this culminated in a fall in july prompting her hospitalization.  during that hospitalization a head ct on 7/25/03 was reported unremarkable.  (there is mild ventriculomegaly on it.)  an mri of the brain on 7/28 showed a few dots of restricted diffusion in the left thalamus. there was no abnormal enhancement.  this was consistent with small vessel stroke.  eeg showed generalized slowing of the background in the theta and delta range with no epileptiform features.  an lp showed normal glucose (74), elevated protein (102), lymphocytic pleocytosis (18-20 wbc, 56-69% lymphocytes, 29-40% monocytes, and 2-4% neutrophils) and 0-1 rbc.  csf ace was normal.  cultures were negative.  csf vdrl was negative.  because she has a history of sarcoidosis, it was thought that this likely represented neurosarcoidosis.  she was started on prednisone 40 mg daily.  her daughter has noted some improvement in her movements and cognition since starting the prednisone, but she remains abnormal.  she has lowered the prednisone to 10 mg daily now.  reviewing the laboratory studies today, i see that although an rpr was non-reactive, a ta-igg was positive, and the confirming treponemal tests (fta) was also positive at the state lab.  she and her daughter are aware of no prior history of syphilis.  other studies during her hospitalization included low serum na (133) and mg (1.3), normal vitamin b12, folate, tsh, and esr (20).  csf hsv pcr was negative.  hba1c was elevated at 8.6.  she has a history of asthma going back many years.  according to her daughter, she had a skin lesion excised from near her left eye about two years ago.  apparently, this showed noncaseated granuloma, and that is when the diagnosis of sarcoidosis was first made.  she then had a mediatinoscopy on 4/10/02.  biopsy of mediastinal nodes showed granulomatous inflammation without caseating necrosis, supporting the diagnosis of sarcoidosis.  she has type ii dm, htn, hypercholesterolemia, gerd, and she has had a thyroid adenoma.  her current medications are prednisone 10 mg daily, aspirin 81 mg daily, troglitazone, metformin, glyburide, sisinoril, pravastatin, vitamin d, calcium co3, colace, and an inhaler for her asthma as needed.  she is allergic to sulfa agents and to fluticasone nasal spray.  there is no history of allergy to pcn.  her parents both died of some type of cancer.  there is no family history of sarcoidosis or of neurologic disease.she is a widow.  she has four children.  she used to work for lowe's.  she now lives with a daughter. she has had no recent fever or chills.  her weight has been stable and her appetite good.  there is no history of exertional chest pain or palpitations.  there is no history of cough, dyspnea, nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea.  she has had no rash or joint symptoms.pulse 126, regular.  bp 126/66.  she is obese.  ears, nose, and throat are clear.  there are no cranial bruits.  the neck is supple with full carotid pulses and no bruits.  there are wheezes bilaterally.  the heart is regular with no murmur.  the abdomen is benign.  the extremities are normal.there is general psychomotor slowing.  she is oriented to time, expect that she gets the date off by two days as aug 31.  she is oriented to place.  she is inattentive.  she is able to recite the months in order, but she gets lost trying to recite them in reverse.  she has trouble registering 4 words, and she recalls only 2 of 4 after three minutes.  there is no aphasia.  she cannot copy interlocking pentagons and her copy of a 3d cube shows poor spacial representation.  the visual fields are full.  the pupils are 3 mm and normally reactive.  the fundi are poorly visualized.  .  the eye movements are full and conjugate with no nystagmus; pursuit movement are saccadic.  facial sensation is intact.  facial power is normal and symmetric.  hearing is grossly intact.  weber and rinne tests are normal.  the palate elevates normal.  gag is present.  the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius power are normal.  the tongue protrudes in the midline.  muscle bulk, tone, and power are normal.  there is a low-amplitude, high-frequency tremor in action and rest.  temperature and pinprick sensation are diminished in the lower extremities with a distally-predominant gradient.  reflexes are normal (2/4) and symmetric in the upper extremities and at the knees and absent at the ankles.  plantar responses are flexor.  coordination is intact.  romberg is negative.  gait and station are normal.her treponemal test for syphilis came back positive from the hospitalization in july.  since syphilis, too, could cause noncaseating granulomas, and she has clearly has syphilis at some point in the past which was probably untreated, this raises some doubt about the diagnosis of sarcoidosis.  i will review that issue with you and with dr, villalpando.  she had csf pleocytosis in july.  with that and the positive treponemal test (fta), she will need a full course of intravenous penicillin for presumed neurosyphilis.  i will discuss arrangements for possible outpatient management of hatt with a picc line and outpatient vna services.  concerning her need for prednisone, i think that will depend on our interpretation of the diagnosis of sarcoidosis in light of this new diagnosis.  if the evidence of sarcoidosis is not strong with this alternative diagnosis, then we can plan to complete the course of penicillin and taper and discontinue the prednisone and then follow her clinical course, her csf, and her syphilis serologies.finally, from the mri of 7/28, shows a couple of tiny foci of restricted diffusion in the left thalamus.  these are most consistent with small vessel ischemic strokes.  she has multiple risk factors for common small vessel disease and stroke, but in the context of her inflammatory csf and evidence of prior syphilis, we must also consider cerebrovascular syphilis as the likely cause of this.i would recommend treatment now with a 14-day course of high-dose (20-24 million units a day) penicillin.  she is already on prednisone which might help to prevent any possible jarisch-herxheimer reaction.  i think that if she remains stable after the initiation of her pcn therapy, then we can plan to taper and then discontinue the prednisone, to follow her clinically and with repeated lp, and determine any need for future corticosteroid therapy on her course.  thank you for this consultation.sincerely,keondre viera, m.d.