record #724563414771461 | fch | 65658931 | | 8309633 | 7/23/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 7/7/2005 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: pennelle , sol leonel mddischarge date:to be determined.service:cardiology sovidar drive , fordmil louisrance a , illinois 92422admission weight:139.4 kg.discharge weight:130.3 kg.chief complaint:increasing dyspnea on exertion.history of present illness:this 59-year-old woman with two weeks of dyspnea on exertion ,increased pedal edema presents to the emergency department. shereports that over the past 3-4 weeks she has had a slow increasein her lower extremity edema and gradual increase in her weightand moderate increase in dyspnea on exertion. she has takenincreased bumex and also tried zaroxolyn at home without effect.she reports strict adherence to a diet and fluid restriction andher medications. she urinates clear urine multiple times a dayand at night. she reports no orthopnea , no pnd , less shortnessof breath at rest , no chest pain , no fevers , chills , nausea ,vomiting , or diaphoresis. she does report increased facialedema , increased swelling in her hands , and increased abdominalgirth.past medical history:1. chf ( diastolic dysfunction , ef of 60% on biweekly outpatientnesiritide ).2. insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus complicated bygastroparesis , chronic renal insufficiency , and retinopathy.3. chronic renal insufficiency ( baseline creatinine 3.2 to 4.6 ).4. depression.5. recent mallory-weiss tear.6. morbid obesity.7. anemia.8. hypercholesterolemia9. right leg superficial femoral thrombus extending into thedeep vein system on coumadin ( diagnosed in 3/24 ).10. nephrotic syndrome.11. chronic back pain from spinal stenosis.allergies:sulfa drugs have given an unknown reaction.medications on admission:avapro 300 mg q.d. , metoprolol xl 300 mg q.d. , aspirin 81 mgq.d. , respirdal 1 mg p.r.n. , epoetin 20 , 000 q. week , norvasc 20mg b.i.d. , coumadin 6 mg once a day , nexium 40 mg q.d. , clonidine0.3 mg b.i.d. , colace 100 mg b.i.d. , iron sulfate 325 mg b.i.d. ,nph insulin 35 units subcu b.i.d. , meclizine 25 mg b.i.d. , sennatwo tablets b.i.d. , paxil 30 mg q.d. , zocor 80 mg q.d. , bumex 2mg p.o. b.i.d. , and zaroxolyn ( unknown dose ).family history:no known history of coronary artery disease , positive familyhistory of diabetes mellitus.social history:quit smoking one year ago previously smoked 20 pack years , noalcohol , no reported iv drug use. lives in nash sa more alone , hasno social supports but does have vna at home , has three sistersand three brothers.physical examination:on physical exam , temperature 98 , pulse 87 , blood pressure140/80 , respirations 18 , and 97% on room air. she is in noapparent distress. pupils are equal and reactive. extraocularmovements are intact. mucous membranes moist. jvp isapproximately 5 cm. heart is regular rate and rhythm , nomurmurs , gallops , or rubs. chest is clear to auscultation withno wheezes. abdomen is obese with positive bowel sounds.extremities shows 3+ , lower extremity edema and tenderness to thetouch. neuro is alert and oriented x3. cranial nerves areintact. skin shows no rashes.laboratory exams:initial bmp was 36 , sodium 135 , potassium 3.4 , chloride 98 ,bicarbonate 27 , bun 74 , creatinine 4.4 , white blood cell 6 ,hematocrit 36 , platelets 155 , 000 , troponin i less than assay , ck146 , mb 2.3.chest x-ray , no changes from 2003. ekg normal sinus rhythm at71. left axis deviation. question of left anterior hemiblock.echo in 7/17 showed normal valves. ef of 65% to 70%. mild lvh.normal pulmonary artery systolic pressure.hospital course:this 59-year-old female with multiple medical problems includingmorbid obesity , diabetes , chf with diastolic dysfunction , andchronic renal insufficiency secondary to diabetes is on homenesiritide infusions and comes in with total body volumeoverload. she was aggressively diuresed during thishospitalization.course by system:cardiovascular:1. ischemia: the patient did not have any positive cardiacenzymes and no evidence of ischemia. she was maintained onaspirin , a beta-blocker , and a statin.2. pump: the patient was diuresed aggressively. she wasstarted on a continuous bnp drip along with lasix 160 mg ivb.i.d. plus metolazone as needed to help diurese approximately 1liter per day. the patient did not respond to p.o. lasix. thepatient was variably responsive to diuretics , but at the time ofdischarge , had diuresed down the 130.3 kg a drop of approximately10 kg or approximately 22 pounds. the patient's bnp at the timeof discharge was 8 and she was not felt to be in heart failure.she continued to have lower extremity edema that was felt likelysecondary to venous stasis and lack of mobilization. therefore ,she was encouraged to mobilize and given compression stockings tohelp mobilize the fluid in her legs. at the time of discharge ,she was diuresing well to oral bumex and she was maintained onbumex in order to keep her ins and outs even each days.3. rhythm: the patient did not have issues from a rhythmperspective.renal: the patient had a creatinine that climbed as high as 5.8 ,during her hospitalization. she was felt to have an underlyingdiabetic nephropathy. the renal service ( dr. courtney sissom ) wasconsulted and felt that the patient would likely eventually needoutpatient dialysis , however , there was no emergent indicationfor dialysis at this time. the patient has seen dr. hilton v sheaks , at fullfirst , vascular surgery prior tothis for consideration of a fistula placement and she willcontinue to follow up with dr. sauberan following discharge.hematology: the patient was maintained on coumadin for herhistory of a clot in the right and left superficial femoral vein ,which was diagnosed in 3/24 and was noted to be extendingtowards the deep venous system. the patient was also continuedon iron for her underlying anemia.endocrine: the patient had diabetes and was maintained on hernph plus a regular insulin sliding scale to control her bloodsugars and her blood sugars were reasonably well controlled andgenerally below 200.musculoskeletal: the patient was complaining of increasingcramps in her calves a few days prior to discharge. therefore ,lower extremity noninvasive ultrasound tests were repeated andthese ruled out recurrent deep venous thrombosis. a ck waschecked and this was normal and therefore , it was felt that thepatient did not have any evidence of rhabdomyolysis or acompartment syndrome. it was felt that these pains were mostlikely secondary to venous pooling in the legs combined withinactivity. the patient was treated symptomatically withoxycodone and encouraged to ambulate to help mobilize the fluidout of her legs.final medications:the final medications will be dictated at the time of discharge.escription document: 6-0629966 emsdictated by: grishan , cecilattending: lombardo , nathan waldodictation id 8536124d: 2/11/05t: 2/11/05[report_end]