record date: 2085-04-22 gillis, betty7886518904/22/2085ines estep, m.d.930 scotia waybig bear lake, co  98839to dr. estep:i saw betty gillis in cardiovascular clinic with dr. vicente noel on 04/22/2085.  betty gillis is a very pleasant 73-year-old woman who was recently admitted to the griffin memorial hospital in early february 2085 with a right mca territory stroke characterized clinically by drooling and left hand weakness.  fortunately, her symptoms have now resolved and she is back to her regular activities.  we understand that she has also had previous strokes.  in december 2082, she was suffering a dizzy spell and subsequently an mri of her brain found a posterior circulation cerebellar infarct as well as a couple of basal ganglia lacunar infarct.  she recalls having only v2 clinical events.she was worked up in the griffin memorial hospital and had a holter, which demonstrated normal sinus rhythm with minor ectopy only, an echocardiogram, which was reported as essentially normal with the exception of a positive saline contrast bubble study suggesting a patent foramen ovale, an mri of her head which demonstrated the infarct and marked microvascular disease, as well as a ct angiogram of her head and neck arteries, which demonstrated mild atheroma for the most part with a left internal carotid artery stenosis that was less than 50%.  she is referred to us today for an opinion as to how to manage the possible patent foramen ovale.this lady has never had cardiac problems otherwise.  there is no history of atrial fibrillation, coronary artery disease or congestive heart failure.  she does not get exertional chest discomfort (chest pain or shortness of breath) and has no history of syncope or presyncope.  she has no history of pnd, orthopnea or edema.  she remains fairly active despite her ataxic gait.  she tells me that she is able to walk several blocks without difficulty and never has any exertional chest pains or shortness of breath.  moreover, she does not have claudication.  functional inquiry is otherwise unremarkable save for her usual difficulties with psoriasis and eczema.  she denies difficulties with heartburn or gi bleeding recently.past medical history:1.  stroke.a.  subcortical basal ganglia stroke.b.  cerebellar stroke in december 2085 with subsequent ataxic gait.c.  right mca stroke with left hand weakness in february 2085.2.  hypertension3.  dyslipidemia.4.  insulin insensitivity5.  ex-smoker (1-1-1/2 packs per day for approximately 40 years, quit approximately 12 years ago).6.  possible patent foramen ovale.7.  degenerative joint disease/osteoarthritis.a.  status bilateral total knee replacement in 2084.b.  gastroesophageal reflux disease/hiatus hernia.c.  status post gi bleeding (query secondary to esophagitis)8.  osteoporosis.9.  bladder incontinence.there is no history of other cardiac problems.  there is no history of venous thromboembolic disease.  this lady has not had frank diabetes.allergies:  she has no known drug allergies.current medical therapy:1.  aggrenox 25/200 p.o. b.i.d.2.  prilosec 20 mg p.o. daily.3.  doxepin 25 mg daily.4.  simvastatin 40 mg p.o. daily.5.  atenolol 12.5 mg p.o. daily.6.  fosamax 70 mg every week.7.  blank 1 tab daily.8.  darifenacin 7.5 mg daily.family history:  betty gillis is adopted and does not know very much about her biological parents.  she believes that her biological father suffered a stroke at some point, but cannot say for certain how old he was.social history:  this woman is single.  she is a retired secretary.  she is an ex-smoker (more than 40 pack years), but does not drink significant amounts of alcohol.  she has no other history of substance abuse.review of systems:  functional inquiry is positive for difficulties with psoriasis that are chronic and ongoing.  she has no other new symptoms.  there is no recent gi bleeding.  she has difficulties with bladder incontinence as well.on physical examination today, her heart rate is 86 beats per minute and regular and her blood pressure is 122/78 in the right arm and 124/80 in the left arm.  respiratory rate is 20 and she is pink on room air.  head and neck exam is unremarkable.  there are no carotid bruits.  she has some kyphoscoliosis of her spine.  her chest examination reveals no dullness to percussion and vesicular breath sounds only.  her jugular venous pressure is not elevated.  central pulses are normal in volume and contour.  her apex beat is within normal limits.  heart sounds include a normal s1 and s2 with no murmurs.  her abdomen is soft and nontender.  there are no obvious masses.  her aorta does not obviously appear to be enlarged.  her pulses are palpable in her groin, but hard to feel behind her knees and distally.  they are symmetrical.  informally, abi test was not done today because she has several weeping eczematous lesions on her legs, which reflects psoriasis that has been excoriated.  a brief neurologic exam reveals dysmetria worse on the left than the right.impression:  betty gillis has had at least four strokes and has documented evidence of atherosclerotic vascular disease and cerebromicrovascular disease on recent imaging.  we reviewed the echocardiogram today and we wished to confirm with the reading echocardiographer that it is indeed positive.  (it does not look particularly positive to our eyes).  certainly, if she does not indeed have a patent foramen ovale, there is no issue as to what to do about it.  if she does have one; however, it seems more likely that her strokes reflect her atherosclerotic vascular disease secondary to her atherosclerotic risk factors and that the bulk of treatment should be directed at modulating those.her hypertension is controlled today.  her dyslipidemia is not bad.  however, the ldl is 76 and perhaps there is some added benefit to increasing her simvastatin to 80 mg p.o. daily.  we also note that she has had elevated glucoses in the past, as high as 191, as well as an elevated hemoglobin a1c up to 6.5.  it is probably worth having her screen formally to see whether or not she has type 2 diabetes mellitus versus insulin insensitivity only.  she may benefit from an oral hypoglycemic.we recommend.1.  we will review the echocardiogram with the reading echocardiographer to ensure that it does indeed show a patent foramen ovale.2.  we suggest that she increase her statin from simvastatin 40 mg p.o. daily to simvastatin 80 mg p.o. daily.  we will leave this to her primary care physician to organize.3.  we suggest that she be screened formally for diabetes mellitus type 2.we will see her again as necessary, but for the time being, we have no plans to perform an intervention on this lady.______________________________bobby elston braun, mdescription document:8-3518405 iffocuscc: michael john boyle md687 scotia waybig bear lake, co 17347dd: 04/22/85dt: 04/23/85dv: 04/22/85