909677552ctmc8696500212070263/13/2004 12:00:00 amanemia , hypoglycemiasigneddisadmission date :03/13/2004report status :signeddischarge date :03/21/2004attending :salene marggay norfjescstooks mdadmission diagnosis :hypoglycemia leading to question seizure , non st-elevation mi , gi bleed , anemia .chief complaint :question seizure / loss of consciousness with hypoglycemia , fingerstick blood sugar of 24 .history of present illness :an 82-year-old male with a history of cad status post cabg , cva status post cea , diabetes mellitus , hypertension , gi bleeding , chf with an ef of 35% , left lower lobe pneumonia on admission on 01/22/04 - 01/31/2004 , pvd and bladder cancer .the patient recently dc'd to home from erdiconre hospital on 02/20/2004 .the patient reports feeling increasingly weak times several days and on the morning of admission needed assistance to go to the bathroom where he had a melanotic stool .of note , the patient has had melena times months with multiple blood transfusions at the usoak rinix hospital .the patient , after having his melanotic stool , had a question seizure-like activity with question loss of consciousness .ems was called and found the patient 's fingerstick blood sugar to be 24 .the patient at that time had slurred speech with altered mental status .the patient at the site was given 1 amp of d50 .fingerstick blood sugar on repeat was 190 .the patient was transferred to the ed .of note , in the genearocktemp ry health ed the patient was noted to have a hematocrit of 23.7 down from low 30s , a troponin of 5.8 , and an ekg with afib showing peak t-waves .at that time the patient was thought to have non st elevation mi ; however , family declined aggressive cardiac intervention and opted for medical management only .thus , the patient was admitted to the medical service for gi workup including possibly egd .of note , the patient had a previously scheduled egd for 03/17 .hospital course by system :1. cardiovascular :ischemia :the patient is status post a non st elevation mi , a troponin peaked at 22 likely secondary to dehydration and presentation of acute renal failure .the patient was managed on a beta blocker .aspirin was held second to his concurrent gi bleed .pump :the patient was initially hydrated on exam ; however , the patient became euvolemic after transfusion of blood and _____ iv fluids .of note , the patient was transfused for a total of 4 units of packed red blood cells during this admission .lasix was given after each unit of packed red blood cells .repeat echo revealed an ef of 45-50% with inferior and posterior basal hypokinesis .overall , the patient had preserved lv function despite a large troponin leak .rate and rhythm :the patient with a history of afib .afib was stable .coumadin and aspirin are held again secondary to his concurrent gi bleed .2. gi :a gi consult was obtained and the patient had adequate iv access .hematocrit was checked q.8h and the patient was transfused again , as noted above , a total of 4 units packed red blood cells for a hematocrit of less than 30 .the patient was started on protonix iv 40 b.i.d.per gi consult given the patient 's non st elevation mi he would be a high risk candidate for a gi endoscopy at this time and therefore in the peri non st elevation mi period would prefer supportive management at this time with follow up including elective gi workup in 4-6 weeks .the patient continued to have guaiac positive stools but no evidence of bright red blood per rectum or large amounts of melena .on the date of discharge the patient has stools that are only trace guaiac positive .3. endocrine :on admission , all oral hyperglycemics were held and the patient was covered with regular insulin sliding scale q.a.c. and q.h.s.the patient 's fingersticks were in the 150s without any coverage .the patient was restarted on a low dose glipizide at 2.5 mg and adjustments to be made at the next pcp visit .4. heme :hematocrit is stable .has remained stable above 30 without any need for further transfusions .over the last several days the patient received a total of 4 units packed red blood cells during this admission .on discharge his hematocrit is 35.4 .5. id :the patient was initially started on levo 250 mg q.d. for a uti .however , his urine cultures were positive for mrsa and the patient completed a seven day course of vancomycin iv .6. pulmonary :the patient with a history of mrsa left lower lobe pneumonia .we have a low threshold for starting antibiotics ; however , chest x-ray reveals no acute changes and the patient remained 96% on room air throughout this admission without any stigmata over recurrent pneumonia including cough , dyspnea or shortness of breath .7. renal :the patient came in with a creatinine that was elevated at 2.6 .his baseline was 1.8-2.2 likely pre renal azotemia and subsequently his creatinine improved with hydration and the packed red blood cell transfusions , and his creatinine steadily decreased down to his baseline .on discharge his creatinine is 1.8 .code status :code is dnr / dni .to do plan :1. the patient is to follow up with pcp , dr. toob obestimeuph in two weeks .2. the patient is to follow up with the genearocktemp ry health gi service in four weeks .3. the patient is deconditioned secondary to his week long hospital stay and long rehabilitation stay and will require aggressive physical therapy .4. the patient should have q.o.d. hematocrit checks to ensure that his hematocrit is above 30 and if it is below 30 should be transfused secondary to his underlying known cad .medications on discharge :include albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg nebs q.4h , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , vitamin d 5000 units p.o. q.weekly , iron sulfate 325 mg p.o. t.i.d. , folate 1 mg p.o. q.d. , regular insulin sliding scale , lopressor 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. , neutrophos 250 mg p.o. t.i.d. , senna 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d. , multivitamins with minerals one tab p.o. q.d. , trazadone 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia , zocor 40 mg p.o. q.h.s. , atrovent nebulizers 0.5 mg nebs q.i.d. p.r.n. shortness of breath , pulmicort two puffs inhaled b.i.d. and nexium 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.disposition :the patient is to be discharged to rehabilitation for further recuperation and physical rehabilitation .escription document :9-4697302 ksrgeqm teldicatated by :leickkote , ci abobattending :norfjescstooks , salene marggay dictation id 6114063d :03/21/04t :03/21/04