848063016 | s | 53811923 | | 190664 | 10/20/1996 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 7/21/1996 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/1/1996principal diagnosis: dyspnea on exertion , known coronary arterydisease.history of present illness: the patient is a 76-year-old gentlemanwith chest pain syndrome and knowncoronary artery disease admitted with increasing exertionaldyspnea , thought to be his anginal equivalent. he was admitted formedical management and possible laser angioplasty of an occludedleft circumflex coronary artery. in january 1995 , the patient wasadmitted with an acute chest pain syndrome. cardiaccatheterization , at that time , demonstrated 100% occlusion of theleft circumflex artery which was heavily calcified and not amenableto balloon angioplasty. the patient underwent an exercisetolerance test on may , 1995 where he exercised six minutes andstopped secondary to fatigue. the patient had no chest discomfortor ecg changes during the exercise test. he was discharged home ona medical regimen , including enteric coated aspirin ,hydrochlorothiazide 25 once a day , metoprolol 100 mg b.i.d. , nitropatch 0.2 mg per hour , and sublingual nitroglycerin p.r.n. thepatient also continued on verapamil sr 240 mg b.i.d. for his highblood pressure. at home , the patient reports that he has not beenexercising as frequently as he used to and his exercise regimenusually consisted of 15 minutes on a ski machine three times aweek. he continues to get some exertional dyspnea and also hasepisodes of chest pain , usually after a meal , while he is lying inbed. this probably represents a reflux disease. due to theincreasing frequency of his dyspneic episodes with exertion , thepatient contacted his primary cardiologist , jared stockel , and itwas felt that he probably needed to be admitted for better medicalmanagement and to have an attempted laser angioplasty of hisoccluded left circumflex artery.admission medications: enteric coated aspirin one tablet p.o.q.day , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o.q.day , verapamil sr 240 b.i.d. , k-dur 10 meq q.day , lopressor 100mg p.o. b.i.d. , and nitro patch 0.2 mg times two patches times twohours q.day.physical examination: the patient is an elderly gentleman in noapparent distress. his heart rate was 52and regular. blood pressure was 160/94. heent examination wasunremarkable. his lungs were clear. cardiovascular examinationwas significant for an s4 , normal s1 , s2 , no murmurs. his abdomenwas benign. his extremities had no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema.laboratory data: his ecg showed sinus bradycardia at 56 with leftanterior vesicular block and right bundle branchblock , borderline left atrial enlargement. chest x-ray was clear.sma-7 was normal other than a slightly high creatinine at 1.7 and alow potassium of 3.1. he had a normal cbc and normal pt/ptt.assessment: in summary , this is a 76-year-old gentleman with knowncoronary artery disease , known occlusion of the leftcircumflex with an exercise tolerance test one year ago withoutevidence for ischemia. he presents with chest pain , shortness ofbreath syndrome , etiology of which is unclear.hospital course: he was admitted to the cardiology ny team wherehe underwent a exercise tolerance test on april ,1996 , during which he went 4 minutes and 22 seconds. he stoppedsecondary to dyspnea on exertion and leg fatigue with no chestpain. he had nonspecific changes in his ecg , and his mibi imagesrevealed inferolateral ischemia. on july , 1996 , he underwentcardiac catheterization with laser assisted ptca of his leftcircumflex lesion , which he tolerated well. his postcatheterization course was slightly complicated by increasedbleeding from the groin site , as well as the possible developmentof a hematoma versus pseudoaneurysm as a bruit was heard in theright groin. this was evaluated with a vascular ultrasound whichshowed no hematoma and no pseudoaneurysm. he was observedovernight and was discharged on 8/26/96 in stable condition. hisblood pressure medications were manipulated for better control ofhis significant hypertension , as well as for increased outpatientcompliance. during his hospitalization , urine cultures were sentwhich grew alpha hemolytic streptococcus. this was treated withampicillin initially and he will be sent home on pen-vk. also ofnote , during this admission , hemoglobin a1c was sent which wasslightly elevated at 7. he started on glyburide 5 mg p.o. q.day.however , the patient felt that he did not need to take this andrefused it. his medical team felt that it was more important forhim to be compliant with his hypertension and cardiac medications ,at this juncture , and the issue of restarting glyburide will bebrought up in the outpatient setting by dr. boncella . he isdischarged today , august , 1996 with vna services to monitormedicine compliance and measure blood pressures , as well as for ahome safety evaluation.discharge medications: enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.day ,atenolol 100 mg p.o. q.day ,hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. q.day , lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q.day ,adalat cc 30 mg p.o. q.day , nitroglycerin 1/150 one tabletsublingually q.5 minutes times three p.r.n. chest pain , prilosec 20mg p.o. q.day , simvastatin 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , and pen-vk 250 mgp.o. q.i.d. times five days.dictated by: jamey quentin gropper , m.d. kv71attending: sammie e. lobaugh , m.d. ly3  ym805/0472batch: 76366 index no. r7bdiyymd d: 8/26/96t: 8/18/96