565482168 | ch | 95572040 | | 4563090 | 10/5/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/5/2005 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: lanie , anibal m.d.admission diagnosis: septic shock from right prosthetic knee ,infection with mrsa.history of present illness: mr. goettl is an 83-year-oldgentleman with a history of coronary artery disease , congestiveheat failure , diabetes , and chronic renal insufficiency , statuspost bilateral knee replacement 10 years prior who presented toan outside hospital on the february , 2005 , with one day of mildconfusion , fever , and lethargy. he was initially thought to haveleft lower lobe pneumonia , but subsequently left knee effusionwas noted and an arthrocentesis was performed with consistentwith septic arthritis. he was admitted to the hospital forbroad-spectrum antibiotics ( cefepime and vancomycin ) andsubsequently developed hypotension requiring vasopressor supportwith dopamine as well as an increased oxygen requirement. hissepsis was also marked by acute renal failure , mental statuschanges , and a non-st elevation mi. he was transferred tosu quierfield hospital per family request.at the time of admission , the patient was lethargic butinteractive , orient to person and place and complained offatigue , but denied any pain or chest pain or shortness ofbreath.review of systems: obtained from family , disclosed one week ofleft leg and hip pain , low grade fevers , lethargy , and increasedhigh-grade fevers starting the day prior to admission. thepatient had no recent travels , sick contacts , trauma , orexposures.past medical history: hypertension , coronary artery disease ,diabetes complicated by neuropathy , retinopathy , and nephropathy ,congestive heart failure , hyperlipidemia , chronic renalinsufficiency , status post distant left nephrectomy for unclearreasons , neuroendocrine tumor , status post chemotherapy andreception , and esophageal reason felt to be cured , status postbilateral total knee replacement , status post right total hipreplacement , dvt , pe , status post ivc filter , and chronic lowerextremity lymphedema.medications at transfer: vancomycin , cefepime , atenolol , andlisinopril.medications at home: atenolol 50 p.o. q.d. , lipitor , lisinopril10 mg p.o. q.d. , and lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d.allergies: nkda.family history: noncontributory.social history: the patient lives with his wife and denies anytobacco , alcohol , or drug use.physical examination on admission: temperature 97.8 , heart rate80 , blood pressure 91/52 , respirations 18 , and satting 95% on 6liters of nasal cannula. the patient was noted to be lethargicbut otherwise had no acute distress. he was oriented to personand place. lungs examination revealed a few basilar crackles ,but otherwise was clear. cardiac examination had a regular rateand rhythm with 2/6 systolic ejection murmur at left sternalborder nonradiating. abdomen was unremarkable. his right kneehad a large effusion with erythema , tenderness to palpation , andlimited range of motion.laboratory data on admission: notable for a sodium of 132; apotassium of 5.1; and a creatinine of 4.0 , up from a baseline of1.5. white count was 11 , hematocrit was 37.6 , and platelets were217. lactic acid was 0.8. troponin was 0.71. lfts were withinnormal limits.diagnostic data: chest x-ray revealed poor inspiratory effortand question of left lingular infiltrate , mild pulmonary edema ,and a calcified left anterior descending artery. ekg showednormal sinus rhythm with incomplete right-bundle branch block , 2to 3 mm scd depression in the v3 through v5.micro from january , 2005 , staphylococcus aureus withsensitivities pending. blood cultures form january , 2005 ,gram-positive cocci , speciation and sensitivities pending.impression: this is an 82-year-old gentleman with septic shocklikely secondary to infection of his right prosthetic kneecomplicated by bacteremia , acute renal failure , myocardialinjury , and mental status changes.hospital course by systems:1. infectious disease. the patient was found to have mrsa ,septic arthritis complicated by septic shock , bacteremia andacute renal failure. he was brought to the operating room withremoval of his prosthetic knee and debridement of his surroundingarea with drain replacement. he was started on a 42-day courseof vancomycin 1 g q.12h. and is currently on day #18 as offebruary , 2005. he was also noted to have pneumonia on theleft side that bronchoscopy was also thought to be mrsapneumonia. per id consult , he was started the linezolid forbetter lung penetration and is currently on day #8 of 14. he hasbeen afebrile now with negative cultures since then. of note , onbronchoscopy , there was cytopathic changes consistent with hsvinfection , and he was treated with a course of acyclovir also perinfectious disease this is probably unnecessary and presentedcontamination from an old lesion.2. pulmonary. the patient had a nosocomial pneumonia with mrsaand was intubated for inability to handle secretions and mentalstatus changes. he had a tracheostomy placed and has beentolerating that breathing on trach collar during the day andresting on pressure support of 5 and 5 overnight. bbg arefollowed with a pc02 goal of less than 55 and a ph of greaterthan 7.30 when these were correlated to his arterial blood gas.3. cardiovascular. the patient was noted to be in distributiveshock on neo-synephrine with a troponin leak secondary to demandphysiology. he had an echo performed , which demonstrateddiastolic dysfunction and preserved ejection fraction. he alsohad an episode of atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricularresponse in the setting of an acute septic shock. he iscurrently in normal sinus rhythm with cardiac enzymes havingresolved. he has been maintained on aspirin , lipitor , andlopressor for blood pressure and rate control.4. renal. the patient was noted to be in acute renal failure ,which is now resolved and with a creatinine at back to baselineof 1.2 to 1.5.5. hematology. the patient has anemia of chronic disease withcrit at baseline of 30. he should be transfused for transfusiongoal of 26 , although there has been no evidence of acute bloodloss during his hospital course other than perioperative exceptedacute drop in crit which is now resolved.6. endocrine. the patient was on 50 units of lantus as anoutpatient but did have episodes of hypoglycemia in the settingof sepsis and poor nutritional status. he is currently on lantus20 units , which can be slowly increased if his blood sugars arerunning high. additional glucose management can be maintainedwith sliding scale insulin.7. pain/psych. the patient had peristent delirium likely thecombination of infection pain , icu delirium , and treatment withversed and fentanyl. he had a head ct , which was negative forany acute process , and once his intravenous narcotic andbenzodiazepine were stopped , his delirium rapidly cleared over 24to 48 hours. the patient is now on a fentanyl patch for paincontrol , which can be increased as his sensorium clears andhaldol was effective for agitation as well.8. gastrointestinal/fen. the patient had peg placement tosupplement nutrition and has been tolerating tube feeds withoutdifficulty.9. prophylaxis. the patient was maintained on nexium andsubcutaneous lovenox.10. code status. the patient is full code.escription document: 2-3998210 sssten teldictated by: wilkin , erich aldenattending: ketcheside , donnelldictation id 6058934d: 11/10/05t: 11/10/05