record #983755684137177 | nhh | 06871035 | | 796355 | 2/16/2000 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 3/20/2000 report status: signeddischarge date:principal diagnosis: right lower extremity cellulitis.type ii diabetes mellitus.peripheral vascular disease.congestive heart failure.hypertension.chronic abdominal distention.chronic renal insufficiency.status post left femoral popliteal bypassin 1997.status post skin graft on right heel fordiabetic ulcers in 1997.coronary artery disease.status post open reduction internal fixationleft ankle.spondylolothesis.hypercholesterolemia.peripheral neuropathy.diabetic gastroparesis.diabetic retinopathy.carpal tunnel syndrome.anemia.history of present illness: ms. tyrone soldner is a 66 year-old womanwith a history of type ii diabetesmellitus , congestive heart failure , peripheral vascular disease whopresents to us with right leg swelling , pain and tenderness times2-3 days. the patient was last discharged from a de medical center for congestive heart failure exacerbation and chronicabdominal distention on june , 2000. she was in her usual stateof poor health until three days prior to admission when she notedan increase in lower extremity edema bilaterally. two days priorto admission she noted fever , increased abdominal distention andabdominal pain. she noted rash in the right lower extremity theday prior to presentation which had rapidly progressed over oneday , extending from heel to knee. she had not been walking forfour days due to swelling in bilateral legs. she denies chest pain ,dyspnea , constipation , diarrhea , orthopnea , pnd , nocturia , melena.she does not keep track of her own weight. her last bowel movementwas one day prior to admission which was normal brown , slightlyloose.past medical history: significant for 1. coronary artery disease.she had a stress test in 1994 which showedanterior ischemia with no fixed defects. she had an echo in august ,1997 which showed left ventricular hypertrophy with an ef of 55%with minor inferior hypokinesis. 2. congestive heart failure.3. type ii diabetes mellitus. last hemoglobin a1c was 9.5 in july ,2000. complications include peripheral neuropathy , retinopathy ,nephropathy with a baseline creatinine of 1.3 to 1.9 and diabeticgastroparesis. 4. hypercholesterolemia. 5. chronic low back pain.6. chronic constipation. 7. anemia. 8. peripheral vasculardisease , status post left femoral popliteal bypass in 1997. 9.status post right heel skin graft for ulcer in 1997.10. carpal tunnel syndrome , status post release in 1998.11. history of azotobacter pneumonia in 1997. 12. status postcholecystectomy. 13. history of c. difficile colitis. 14. statusleft ankle fracture open reduction internal fixation in february ,1998.medication: on admission include insulin nph pork 45 units q a.m. ,8 units q p.m. , lopressor 25 mg b.i.d. , vaseretic10/25 mg q.d. , dulcolax 10 mg q.d. , aspirin 325 mg q.d. , senokot 2mg b.i.d. , diazepam 5 mg b.i.d. , lipitor 10 mg q.d. , colace 100 mgb.i.d. , lasix 60 mg q.d. , lactulose 30 mg b.i.d. , neurontin 300 mgt.i.d. , naprosyn p.r.n.allergies: include aldomet , nifedipine , darvocet which makes herdrowsy , percocet which makes her vomit.social history: she lives with her sister in morp dr the son isinvolved in her care. she does not have a historyof smoking or drinking. her husband died a year ago ofcomplications from cardiac bypass.physical examination: vital signs: temperature 102.1 , bloodpressure 148/68 , pulse 84 , respirations 22 ,sating 92% on two liters. general examination: this is an obesewoman lying at a 30 degree angle on the bed , pleasant and not inacute distress. head and neck examination was benign. lungs haverales up one-third of the lungs bilaterally , no wheezes or rhonchi.heart regular rate and rhythm , s1 , s2 with s3 and ii/vi systolicmurmur , best heard over the base. jugular venous pulsation at 11cm. abdominal examination was soft , nontender , mildly distended ,no mass and normal bowel sounds. extremities showed diffuseerythema from right heel extending to 5 cm below the knee , mildtenderness , edema greater in the right leg than the left leg. 3+pitting edema bilaterally. she also has a 5 cm x 5 cm skin graftover the right heel with some skin breakdown around the graft site ,slightly weepy , no pus. neurologic examination: the patient isalert and oriented times three. cranial nerves are intact. thepatient does not have any sensation in bilateral legs. normalstrength.laboratory data: significant for hematocrit of 30.7 , white bloodcount 10 , 340 , with a differential of 76 polys , 14bands , 5 lymphocytes. chem-7 was significant for creatinine of1.8. her liver function tests were within normal range. her ckfirst set was 120 with an mb of 2.6 and troponin of 1.39 , coagsnormal d-dimer of greater than 1 , 010. her urinalysis was negative.electrocardiogram showed 1 mm st depression in the lateral leads ,unchanged from baseline. chest x-ray revealed bilateralinterstitial prominence , could be consistent with pulmonary edema ,no focal opacities.hospital course:problem #1 , cellulitis: on admission , the patient was started oncefazolin and flagyl for broad coverage of cellulitis given she hasa history of diabetes mellitus. in addition , levofloxacin wasalso started on hospital day #2 to cover gram negative organisms.blood cultures on admission are negative. because of the skingraft on the patient's right heel , plastic surgery was consulted toassess the integrity of the skin graft. they concluded that theskin graft is intact and the source of the cellulitis was not inthe heel. on hospital day #3 , flagyl was discontinued because thepatient could not tolerate oral sores and the gi upset. therefore ,we elected to change the antibiotic regimen to clindamycin andlevofloxacin. cefazolin and flagyl were discontinued. on hospitalday #6 the patient developed diarrhea. given her history of c.difficile in the past and the lack of improvement in hercellulitis , infectious disease were consulted. we startedcefotaxime and vancomycin on hospital day #7. the patientcontinued to have low grade temperature spikes with daily bloodcultures which have all been negative. wound culture of the bullaeon the right lower extremity was also taken which has also beennegative. vancomycin was discontinued due to low suspicions ofresistant organisms. the patient also had lenis which werenegative for dvt as well as a right foot film which showed no signsof osteomyelitis. unfortunately , the cellulitis does not looksignificantly improved. we postulate that this is due to acombination of noncompliance with strict elevation , peripheraledema from congestive heart failure , peripheral vascular diseaseand diabetes. the patient continued to spike low gradetemperatures. we carried out pan culture which have all beennegative so far including urine , blood. at the time of thisdictation the patient has been on cefotaxime for seven days.infectious disease recommends an mri to rule out osteo and deeperinfection since the cellulitis is very slowly improving.problem #2 , chronic renal failure and chronic renal insufficiency:on admission we started to diurese the patient as she was volumeoverloaded by examination. in addition , we started her on heroutpatient blood pressure medications to control her hypertension.however , on hospital day #2 , the patient's blood pressure dippedinto the high 90s to 100 with a rise in creatinine. we withheldall blood pressure medication as well as diuresis. her creatininecontinued to climb from 2.2 to 3.3. the urinalysis showed numerousred blood cells and no eosinophils. of note , her urine culturegrew out lactobacillus which was not treated. renal was consulted ,and it was thought that the patient's acute renal failure was dueto prerenal causes from a drop in blood pressure as well as mildatn. the patient's creatinine responded to gentle fluid bolusesand resolved on its own by hospital day #7. during the period ofacute renal failure , the patient also had marked hyponatremia whichalso resolved as the renal function improved. the patient'screatinine improved to 1.1 on hospital day #10. at this time , sheunderwent a ct with contrast to delineate a possible liver mass.her subsequent creatinine climbed to 1.8. we had also started heron her outpatient dose of enalapril and lasix. we elected todiscontinue the enalapril and lasix due to her increasedcreatinine. we will observe and add back an ace inhibitor astolerated.problem #3 , coronary artery disease , status post non q-wavemyocardial infarction: the patient was admitted on a rule outprotocol. on her third set of enzymes she showed a ck of 142 , ck mbof 2.2 but a troponin of 6.64. the patient was asymptomatic withno chest pains and no electrocardiogram changes. cardiology wasconsulted and it was felt that the patient had a small non q-wavemyocardial infarction with a troponin leak. a repeat echo on thisadmission showed preserved ef at 55% with no observable wall motionabnormalities. as the patient has refused catheterization in thepast , it was decided that she be managed medically. she wasstarted on metoprolol 12.5 mg b.i.d. as well as aspirin. thepatient has remained symptom free.problem #4 , hypertension: the patient was initially slightlyhypotensive at a systolic blood pressure of 90s to 100 on hospitalday #1. her enalapril and outpatient dose of atenolol were held.she was started back on metoprolol after the non q-wave myocardialinfarction. currently , her blood pressure is maintained between130-150 systolic. we attempted to add back enalapril at this timeto preserve her kidney function given her diabetes. however , hercreatinine increased mildly , thus we have elected to hold enalaprilagain.problem #5 , gastrointestinal: the patient has a history of chronicconstipation on home regimen of dulcolax , senna , colace andlactulose. a kub was obtained on admission which showed air in thecolon but no obstruction. it was thought that her chronicdistention is from diabetic gastroparesis and relative immobility.the patient developed diarrhea during her hospital course for whichher laxatives were held. her stool has been c. difficile negative.she has tolerated very little food due to abdominal distention.she has continued to advance her diet currently to some smallsnacks during the day. her laxatives were re-instituted. becausethe patient continued to spike a low grade temperature and she hadsome abnormal liver function tests , we pursued a renal ultrasoundto rule out her renal abscess which was negative , as well as aright upper quadrant ultrasound. the right upper quadrantultrasound showed a possible liver mass for which we ordered afollowup ct of the abdomen. the ct of the abdomen showed normalvariant of the shape of the liver , caused by a bowel loop that wasanterior to the liver. this is unchanged compared to a study thatshe had in 1996.problem #6 , anemia: on admission the patient was slightly anemicwith a hematocrit of 30. during her past hospitalizations , thepatient always had a hematocrit around 30. on this admission herstools were trace guaiac positive. she received two units of packedred blood cell transfusion with an appropriate response to ahematocrit of 36. gi was consulted. however , since the patient wasstable with no further decrease in the hematocrit , it was decidedthat the patient would pursue an outpatient workup of her anemia interms of colonoscopy.problem #7 , vascular: the patient has a history of peripheralvascular disease on admission. the vascular surgery service wasconsulted to help manage refractory cellulitis. abis were obtainedof the right leg which showed 0.5 to 0.6 on the right lowerextremity and normal on the left lower extremity which has beenpreviously bypassed. pulse volume recording revealed mildlydecreased signal in both the right and left leg. the conclusionwas that the patient had right femoral popliteal disease withnormal resting pressures on the left. however , as the patient isnot very mobile , she does not complain of any claudicationsymptoms. it was decided that no surgery is indicated for her atthis time. we used heparin subcutaneous injections as her dvtprophylaxis during her hospitalization.problem #8 , congestive heart failure: the patient has congestiveheart failure from diastolic dysfunction. on examination , she has1+ edema throughout her body including her upper limbs in the chestarea. however , attempts at diuresis were aborted due to acuterenal failure. she continued to diurese on her own without anypharmacologic interventions , as her creatinine improved. at thistime her lasix is held because of a small bump in creatinine fromlikely the contrast in ct as well as in the enalapril. overall , sheis total body volume up , however , much improved from admission.problem #9 , type ii diabetes mellitus: the patient's blood sugarswere poorly controlled during the hospitalization with fingersticks in the high 100s to low 200s. this is partially due to thepatient's reluctance to take her full dose of nph insulin becauseshe is inconsistent with eating. she also has a sliding scale tocover her. we will encourage her to continue with her full dose ofinsulin as she tolerates food better.problem #10 , peripheral neuropathy and low back pain: thepatient's neurontin dose was reduced to 100 mg t.i.d. from heroutpatient dose of 300 mg t.i.d. due to renal insufficiency. shealso received diazepam currently at 2.5 mg b.i.d. , reduced from heroutpatient dose of 5.5 mg b.i.d. because of renal insufficiency.she also requires morphine sulfate on a p.r.n. basis. her paincontrol is satisfactory at the time of this dictation.dictated by: wilber buckbee , m.d. zl8attending: harris berdecia , m.d. oa42  tt591/2077batch: 5840 index no. drrm7tnku9 d: 3/5t: 3/5[report_end]