record #291395783259770 | t | 08608227 | | 257041 | 10/25/2002 12:00:00 am | hepatic encephalopathy | signed | dis | admission date: 11/14/2002 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/27/2002history of present illness: the patient is a 57-year-old statuspost a massive gastrointestinal bleedin may of 2001 who was transferred to the gosroa health serviceshospital for a tips procedure which failed. she proceeded to go tosurgery at that time for a splenorenal shunt. she was recentlydischarged from the tonla liha measemillr hospital and clinic on november ,2002. during the hospitalization , she had a complicating coursewith encephalopathy , but she was able to be controlled withlactulose and discharged to rehabilitation. she at that time alsohad complications with infections for which she completed a courseof antibiotics. at rehabilitation , she was doing fairly well , buther ammonia had been high. the highest was 196 on january ,2002. the patient has also had increased confusion , increasedabdominal girth. when the daughters went in to visit her today ,she was completely disoriented , complaining of abdominal pain. thedaughters also report subjective fevers and chills. at therehabilitation , her vital signs were notable for a blood pressureof 94/60 , temperature 99.2. per the daughters , the diet had notbeen followed at rehabilitation and she was eating hot dogs. shewas also given benzodiazepines for sleep , up to 60-75 mg q. day ofoxazepam. per report , she had increased confusion and more acutelyin the last two days. in the emergency room on arrival , her bloodpressure was in the 120s , 98% on room air , she was febrile. shewas given levofloxacin , flagyl and ampicillin. a gastrointestinalconsult was called.past medical history: cirrhosis secondary to hepatitis c , grade 4esophageal varices , encephalopathy , statuspost a frontal craniotomy , status post a motor vehicle accidentwith a subdural hematoma , peptic ulcer disease.allergies: the patient has no known drug allergies.medications on transfer: spironolactone 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,olanzapine unknown dose , flagyl which shehad completed her course for clostridium difficile , albuterol andatrovent nebulizers , lactulose 120 mg q.6h. , lopressor 50 mgt.i.d. , serax 30 mg , duragesic patch , neomycin 2 grams q.i.d. ,oxazepam 30 mg q.h.s. and 15 mg q.8h. p.r.n.social history: the patient lives with one of her daughters. shehas a remarkable history of tobacco for 30 years ,one pack per day , recently quit.family history: non-contributory.physical examination: vital signs: temperature 101.1 , heart rate99-120 , blood pressure 94-149/55-71 , oxygensaturation 99% on room air. general: she was a well-nourished ,well-developed lady who was confused and agitated. heent:remarkable for icteric sclera. lungs: clear. cardiovascular:she had a regular rate and rhythm , s1 and s2 normal. jugularvenous pressure was flat. abdomen: positive for bowel sounds ,soft , but distended. she reports tenderness on palpation. rectal:guaiac-positive per emergency department. extremities: her rightlower extremity had erythema , painful to the touch , no warmth andno cords. neurological: positive for asterixis. she was alertand oriented to person , but not to time and confused about theplace. she was unable to carry on a conversation and unable tokeep attentive. her strength was 5/5 and her sensation was intact.laboratory: laboratory data was remarkable for a sodium of 130 ,potassium 4.9 , chloride 102 , bicarbonate 17 , bun 9 ,creatinine 0.8 and glucose 100. her alt was 16 , ast 72 , alkalinephosphatase 118 , amylase 15 and lipase 33. her ammonia level was45 , albumin 3.2 , total bilirubin 2.4. her hematocrit was 29.1.her inr was 1.4. ekg was normal sinus rhythm. abdominal ct scanshowed that she had no abscess , no obstruction , no acute abdominalprocess.hospital course: 1 ) gastrointestinal: at the time of admission ,it was a confusing picture for increasedabdominal girth , however the ct scan showed that she had verylittle ascites and on examination , little tenderness. therefore ,she got a paracentesis which was negative for spontaneous bacterialperitonitis. the patient was treated with cefotaxime and flagylfor possible spontaneous bacterial peritonitis , continued on thelactulose and her diuretics. however , the patient much improvedfrom the gastrointestinal standpoint and after resolution of herinfectious picture ( see below ) , the patient was doing incrediblywell with spironolactone and lasix. she has not been able totolerate her beta blocker secondary to hypotension. during herhospitalization , her hematocrit has been stable. agastrointestinal consult was obtained. i appreciate their input.they recommend to follow up with the transplant team. she has anappointment to see the transplant team on august , 2002. at thistime , it is recommended that she begin to get work-up for a livertransplant. however , her hematocrit and her inr remained stablethroughout the hospitalization.2 ) infectious disease: the patient was negative for spontaneousbacterial peritonitis , however on the second day ofhospitalization , she grew out 4/4 bottles with gram positive cocciin pairs which speciated to be streptococcus group b. therefore ,the antibiotics were tailored and she was started on nafcillinintravenously. the patient then had a picc line placed and shewill continue treatment of two weeks with intravenous penicillin.the patient has been doing very well with resolution of hererythema. infectious disease service consult was obtained. iappreciate their input. they suggested two weeks of intravenouspenicillin.3 ) cardiovascular/hematology: given the swelling of the leg , thepatient had lower extremity ultrasounds which were negative forclot. otherwise , she remained in normal sinus rhythm and nosymptoms of congestive heart failure.4 ) psychiatry: the patient was very confused , most likelydelirium. psychiatry input was greatly appreciated. anotherreason for her confusion was the fact that she was getting muchbenzodiazepines at her rehabilitation before. she was weaned offher benzodiazepines and started on olanzapine and titrated up astolerated. therefore , we highly recommend avoiding benzodiazepinesin this patient and continue with olanzapine which can take p.r.n.as well as needed.5 ) vascular: vascular surgery followed this patient during herhospitalization and deemed that her splenorenal shunt was workingwell with no evidence of leak.disposition: the patient is sent to rehabilitation for furthertreatment and finishing of her antibiotic course. atthis point , she has requested a new primary care physician and thiswill be myself. i will follow her with an appointment in august ,which i have scheduled for her.medications on discharge: nexium 20 mg p.o. q. day , olanzapine 5mg p.o. q. pm and olanzapine 2.5 mg p.o.q.8h. p.r.n. , atrovent inhalers , azmacort , spironolactone 100 mgp.o. b.i.d. , penicillin 3 million units intravenously q.4h. for acomplete course of two weeks , nico-derm 14 mg a day topical ,lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. which is to be held if her systolicblood pressure is less than 100 , lactulose 30 ml p.o. t.i.d. ,motrin p.r.n. for pain and lasix 40 mg p.o. q. day.dictated by: shirley sandburg , m.d. jn33attending: tomas h. frazell , m.d. aa78za177/755995batch: 7686 index no. iazkon0n27 d: 10/4/02t: 10/4/02[report_end]