record date: 2092-08-16edvisit^06129040^mack, rose^08/16/92^graham, angelathis patient's visit was shared with pa, quiring.  i alsopersonally interviewed and examined this patient.history of present illness:  this is a 50-year-old female withpast medical history of type 1 diabetes, peripheral vasculardisease, and hypothyroidism who presents for evaluation of aninfected left heel ulcer.  the patient is status post bypassgrafting in her lower extremities and skin grafting of anonhealing ulcer on her right heel.  since that time, she hasdeveloped a chronic nonhealing ulcer on the left heel, which hasbeen followed closely by vna.  today, she was seen by her vna whowas very concerned about redness and swelling of her left footwith redness that extended underneath the plantar surface of thefoot and over the dorsal surface and concern for infection ofthis ulcer.  the patient has minimal sensation in the left foot. she states sometimes she can feel a pressure sensation.  she doeshave some pain when she tries to weightbear, has not noted anyfevers, has noted some chills and states that her fingerstickearlier today was elevated.  she denies any abdominal pain,nausea, or vomiting.  she does note that her foot does appear tobe somewhat slightly more swollen but has not noticed redness upuntil today.past medical history:  positive for hypothyroidism, type 1diabetes, and peripheral vascular disease with a nonhealingdiabetic foot ulcers.past surgical history:  she is status post femoral bypassgrafting, thyroidectomy, skin grafting for nonhealing wounds, andright foot debridement in the past.social history:  she smoked in the past, does not drink.  shelives with family, is followed by a vna, and is not working.family history:  reviewed and is also positive for diabetes.review of systems:  all other systems reviewed and otherwisenegative except per the hpi.medications:  insulin.allergies:  she has an allergy to codeine, aspirin, erythromycin,oxycodone, and sulfa.physical examination:  her temperature is 98.6, her pulse 105,respirations 16, blood pressure 117/70, and o2 saturations are100% on room air.  the patient is awake, alert, frail, and thinfemale.  she is in no respiratory distress.  her head examinationis normocephalic and atraumatic.  her conjunctivae are slightlypale.  she has moist mucous membranes.  the airway is patent. her neck is supple with full range of motion without any pain. the trachea is midline.  her lungs are clear to auscultationbilaterally with equal breath sounds.  no respiratory distress,no accessory muscle use, and no chest wall tenderness.  hercardiac examination is tachycardic and regular at about 100 witha 3/6 systolic murmur.  her abdomen is nondistended, soft, andnontender.  no guarding and no peritoneal signs.  her skin isremarkable for healing superficial ulcers on the right heel.  onthe left heel, she has a superficial ulcer with a dark eschar,which is approximately 4 x 4 cm in diameter.  there is nopurulent discharge around the area; however, the skin of the leftfoot is fairly violaceous and warm on the plantar surface of thefoot surrounding the ulcer extending up the lateral aspect of thefoot to the anterior aspect of the left ankle was demarcated inthe emergency department.  there is no other break in the skinvisualized.  her back is nontender with full range of motion. extremities are remarkable for lower extremity atrophy.  she doeshave 1+ edema of both feet.  she has minimal sensation onpalpation of her feet with no obvious tenderness on palpationover her left foot.  her pulses are trace.  she is alert andoriented x3, has a depressed affect.  see the pa note forremainder of the details of the physical examination.emergency department course:  the patient had iv accessinitiated.  laboratory studies were sent including bloodcultures.  she was started on iv antibiotics, vancomycin, andgentamicin and was consulted to vascular surgery.  her feetremained elevated.  she had a plain x-ray performed of her foot,which showed no obvious evidence of osteomyelitis and nosubcutaneous gas.  her laboratory studies are remarkable forhyperglycemia and she was started on iv fluids.disposition:  she is admitted to surgery.diagnosis:  left foot, nonhealing ulcer with left footcellulitis, and peripheral vascular disease.see the note for details.______________________________graham, angela m.d.d: 08/16/92t: 08/16/92dictated by: graham, angelaescription document:3-3296461 bffocus  not reviewed by attending physician