660923652 | jh | 49613363 | | 690360 | 2/6/1996 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 5/29/1996 report status: signeddischarge date: 4/16/1996principal diagnosis: non q wave myocardial infarction.history of present illness: this is a 53-year-old woman with mildmental retardation , schizophrenia , andborderline diabetes mellitus who was transferred from himend richdent health services for further cardiac evaluation after a non q wavemyocardial infarction. she was in her usual state of health untilaugust 1995 when her family reports she began to haveintermittent abdominal pain and shortness of breath. it continuedto worsen until october 1996 when she presented to her primarymedical doctor and was diagnosed with a upper respiratory infectionand treated with antibiotics and theo-dur. at that time , thefamily noticed she had an increasing shortness of breath , lethargy ,and now significant weight gain. they reported about 35 lb perweek. on the date of admission to the limen hospital , she wasambulating , but became extremely short of breath with severeabdominal pain. they took her to the hospital and she was admittedfor what they thought was primary gastrointestinal process , butthey noted increasing ggts without alkaline phosphatase changes inher laboratory panel. she was placed on a rule out myocardialinfarction protocol and subsequently ruled in for a non q wavemyocardial infarction with cks of 235 , 6.3% , 246 , 7.7% mbs and 197 ,7.6% mbs. her ekg showed anterolateral myocardialinfarction/ischemic myocardial infarction. her echo at woodnaw medical center showed decreased lv function per report. since admissionthere , she had had repeated episodes of chest pain/abdominaldiscomfort from 7/11/96 to 5/25/96 , and she was transferred tothe middvail fredhot hospital for further evaluation.past medical history: mild mental retardation , schizophrenia ,borderline diabetes mellitus , and morbidobesity.family history: the patient has had a history of thyroid problemsin her family. she has a history of coronaryartery disease in her family. she lives with her sister. herdaughters are in the area. her cardiac risk factors include familyhistory , borderline hypertension. she does not smoke or drink.physical examination: the patient is an obese woman in no obviousdistress. the patient had dry mucousmembranes. her neck and jvp were difficult to assess secondary tobody habitus. she had a left ij catheter in place. she haddistant heart sounds without murmurs , rubs , or gallops. lungs hadcrackles 1/4 of the way up bilaterally. abdomen was markedly obesewith a right upper quadrant tenderness to deep palpation. she hadedema from her feet up to her abdominal canis. she had 4+ edema toher hips. there were 2+ pulses dp and pt. femoral pulses weredifficult to assess. the patient was alert and oriented timesthree and able to understand questions , but she had decreasedverbal skills.laboratory data: sma-20 and cbc were within normal range. herldh was slightly elevated at 419 , alkalinephosphatase elevated at 746. total protein was decreased at 6.4 ,albumin decreased at 3.6. her digoxin level was 0.4. she was onheparin with a ptt of 58.8. ekg showed a sinus rhythm of 89 , poorr wave progression , old ischemic myocardial infarction , t waveinversions in 1 , l , and v5-v6. chest x-ray , by report from noxer kingsnew tesbucks health of , showed mild cardiomegaly , pulmonary venoushypertension , elevated right hemidiaphragm.hospital course: on transfer , the patient was evaluated with anechocardiogram which showed global hypokinesiswith an ejection fraction of 20% and severely dilated heart.cardiac catheterization was contemplated to rule out ischemia asher source of cardiomyopathy , but given that catheterization wouldlikely require intubation secondary to sedation given her psychissues , the decision was made to pursue a more conservative coursewith treatment of medication. she was aggressively treated forcongestive heart failure with digoxin , ace inhibitor , and iv lasixand she continued to get iv lasix b.i.d. 40 mg. she remainedstable while in the hospital and , after several days of diuresis ,her edema slowly improved. her breathing improved and she began toambulate. she lost approximately 8 kg while in hospital.her second issue was gastrointestinal. she continued to have , onadmission , an elevated ldh and alkaline phosphatase in the absenceof significant transaminases , it was not consistent with passivecongestion alone. we continued to follow them and they eventuallydrifted down. the source of her elevations were never clear. wechecked the ammonia level which was normal and a sedimentation ratewhich was normal.her third issue was infectious disease. her urine , by report atymont taplaeast hospital , had greater than 10-15 e.coli. she was nottreated with antibiotics. we repeated the urinalysis here andbegan ampicillin on p.o. for a urinary tract infection , which shecontinued for a full 10 day course. they felt that her urinarytract infection was secondary to limited ambulation and her bodyhabitus.the fourth issue was fluids , electrolytes , and nutrition. she hadtotal body edema and anasarca with slightly decreased protein andalbumin , but most likely secondary to severe congestive heartfailure. her mucous membranes were dry , but felt this wassecondary to her breathing and possible intervascular depletion.all of these issues cleared as she was diuresed.the fifth issue was psych. we continued her medications andcontacted her family for support while she was in the hospital.the patient did well and once she was able to walk around withphysical therapy , she was discharged on lasix , digoxin , and withvna.discharge medications: elavil 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. , aspirin ecasa325 mg p.o. q.day , cogentin 1 mg p.o.b.i.d. , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.day , lasix 60 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,haldol 10 mg p.o. q.day , ativan 1 mg p.o. b.i.d. , and lisinopril 20mg p.o. b.i.d.discharge condition: she is being discharged in stable conditionwith vna follow up.dictated by: nathaniel p. dobbe , m.d. uc46attending: ty p. schoening , m.d. ml06hw629/0178batch: 04471 index no. z5ftin4hfg d: 1/2/96t: 8/25/96cc: 1. sumsion , alonzo theron h. ml062. gordey ralla , arizona 99514