record #706689796171710 | trch | 89186593 | | 953827 | 4/30/1999 12:00:00 am | dehydration | signed | dis | admission date: 2/11/1999 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/30/1999discharge diagnosis: 1. ischemic hepatocellular injury.2. alcohol abuse.3. alcoholic cardiomyopathy.chief complaint: vomiting , fever , and chills for 18 hours prior toadmission and a cough.history of present illness: the patient is a 51 year oldafrican-american female with a historyof long-standing alcohol abuse with two episodes of alcoholicpancreatitis in the past. she is status post t2 , n1 floor of themouth squamous cell carcinoma. this was treated with resection andxrt. she presents with vomiting x 18 hours. the patient was inher usual state of health until two days prior to admission whenshe began to develop upper respiratory infection symptoms withcongestion and a productive cough. the cough was initiallyproductive of white sputum and then later which turned dark incolor. she denies any blood tinged sputum or rust colored sputum.the patient's cough and upper respiratory infection symptomsprogressed and she began to feel weak. on the morning prior toadmission , the patient awoke from sleep with a coughing fit andsubsequently vomited. she denies any hematemesis at that time.she repeatedly had episodes of vomiting over the next 28 hoursprior to admission and was unable to drink liquids withoutvomiting. she reports that she took approximately eight to tentylenol 500 mg tablets prior to admission for her symptoms. shebecame progressively light-headed and dizzy , especially withstanding up. she reports subjective fevers although she did nottake her temperature , and also night sweats. she had one episodeof diarrhea which was nonbloody and loose. her son , who is anemployee of the hos medical center cafeteria , went tovisit her and urged her to go to the emergency room.in the emergency room , the patient was initially triaged to theemergent side of the ew , was found to have a blood pressure of77/50 with a pulse of 138. she was transferred to the acute sidefor management.past medical history: 1. notable of alcohol pancreatitis in julyof 1998 and may of 1997. 2. squamous cellcarcinoma of the head and neck , as previously noted , status postexcision in 1994 with xrt and hyperbaric oxygen therapy. she isalso status post multiple dental extractions and one flap revision.3. history of total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateralsalpingo-oophorectomy in 1985. 4. history of small bowelobstruction , status post lysis of adhesions , getting an exploratorylaparotomy in july 1997.allergies: she has no known drug allergies.medications: none.family history: noncontributory.social history: one to three cigarettes per day and one-half toone pint of brandy each day for "a long time."review of systems: as per history of present illness. she deniesany orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea ,lower extremity edema , chest pain , or shortness of breath. as faras she knows , she has no known cardiac history.physical examination: she was relatively well-appearing in noapparent distress. her temperature was98.0. her blood pressure was 110/84 , her pulse was 101. herrespiratory rate was 16 and oxygen saturation was 95% on room air.heent: pupils equal , round and reactive to light andaccommodation; extraocular muscles intact; sclera were muddywithout icterus. oropharynx was notable for postsurgical changeson the right side and with dry mucous membranes. neck: notablefor no meningismus and jugular venous pressure of approximately 5cm. the lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. heart:regular rate and rhythm without murmurs , gallops , or rubsauscultated and a nondisplaced point of maximal intensity.abdomen: soft with mild left upper quadrant tenderness , but nohepatic tenderness. the liver edge was nonpalpable. there was nospleen tip palpable and bowel sounds were present. the extremitieswere notable for no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema and were warm andperfuse. neurologically , she was alert and oriented x 3 withintact cranial nerve. her strength and sensation were grosslyintact , 5/5 in the upper and lower extremities. her toes weredown-going bilaterally and her reflexes were symmetric in the upperand lower extremities. rectal examination was guaiac negative.data: laboratory values upon admission showed electrolytes withinnormal limits. magnesium was 1.1. white count 6.5 ,hematocrit 48 , platelets 200. differential: 78 polys , 1 band , 12lymphs and 8 monos. mcv was 104. rdw was 14. alt 140 , ast 605 ,alkaline phosphatase 119 , and total bilirubin was 2.6 with a directfraction of 1.5. lipase was 319 , amylase was 44. her inrs were1.1 and her prothrombin time was 19.9 troponin was 0.22.chest x-ray was notable for no infiltrates or evidence of heartfailure.ekg was notable for sinus tachycardia at 117 with a q-wave of 3 andq-wave in v2 and v3. q-wave inversions were noted in v3 and v6with no chest pain.urinalysis was notable for 2+ protein , trace keto , 3+ blood , 2+leukocyte esterase , 28 to 30 whites and 2+ squamous cells.assessment: in the emergency room , the patient was acutely treatedfor presumed sepsis and received a dose of ceftriaxoneand clindamycin. urinalysis results indicated that she had apotential urinary tract infection at that time. blood cultureswere drawn and the patient received iv hydration. her ekg wasnoted to have new t-wave inversions as compared to previously withan indeterminate troponin. she was admitted to medicine formanagement.hospital course: the patient's hospital course can be summarizedas follows:1. cardiovascular: the patient has no known cardiac history. hercardiac risk factors include cigarette smoking and postmenopausalfemale , age 51. no diabetes mellitus. no knownhypercholesterolemia. no known family history. she does , however ,drink heavily and has done so for a number of years. she has noknown cardiotoxic effect secondary to alcohol.the t-wave inversions were noted with an indeterminate troponin.the patient was admitted in a rule out protocol. she ruled out foran myocardial infarction with serial cks which were all below 50.her t-wave inversions persisted despite resolution of her sinustachycardia. an echocardiogram was obtained which demonstrateddilated left ventricle of 5.6 cm and an ejection fraction of 25 to30% with inferoseptal and inferoseptal apical akinesis. noventricular thrombus was noted.cardiology consultation service was asked to see the patient toevaluation her in the setting of her new depressed ejectionfraction and focal wall motion abnormalities. initially , she waspresumed to have coronary disease which had been clinically silentprior to this. she was treated with aspirin , lopressor andcaptopril 6.25 mg three times a day. unfortunately , the patient'sblood pressure did not tolerate this antihypotensive regimen and ,despite efforts to scale it back in dosages , the majority of themedicines were held. nevertheless , the patient's heart rate slowedto the 60s. she experienced one episode of burning chest pain onthe night of admission which was alleved with maalox. there wereno ekg changes associated with that pain.the patient was taken to the cardiac catheterization lab on julythe cardiac catheterization was notable for a right atrialpressure of 5. right ventricular pressure of 36/10. pulmonaryartery pressure was 35/13 , and the pulmonary capillary wedgepressure was 16. her cardiac output was 6.13 with an index of3.69. the left heart catheterization noted normal coronaryarteries without evidence of significant coronary disease. herleft ventriculogram also noted a preserved ejection fraction withno focal wall motion abnormalities. dr. garret dalrymple of thecardiac consultation service followed the patient in house and feltthat the reversal of her wall motion abnormalities could beattributable to the acute effects of alcoholic cardiotoxicity. thepatient will be discharged on aspirin for primary prevention ofcoronary disease , as her other medications were discontinued. thepatient was heparinized for her apical wall motion abnormality andlow ejection fraction while in house and the heparin wasdiscontinued at the time of catheterization.2. gi: the patient presented with an acute elevation of hertransaminases. the patient's transaminases were noted to be lessthan 10 in july of 1998. initially , it was felt that thesetransaminases might reflect alcoholic hepatitis given hersignificant alcohol history. the patient reports that her lastdrink was on sunday prior to admission. she drinks about a pint ofbrandy every day. the patient's transaminases continued to rise ,however. the diagnosis of acute tylenol toxicity superimposed uponhepatocellular damage from alcoholic hepatitis was alsoentertained. she was empirically started on naphthyl cystine andreceived approximately two to three doses , however , that medicationwas discontinued upon gi consultation. the patient's transaminasesrose to a level of approximately 4000 ast and 1000 alt , and the giservice was consulted. the patient's hepatitic serologies weresent and were notable for positive hepatitis b core antigen ,whereas the rest of her hepatitis serologies including hepatitis c ,hepatitis a and hepatitis b surface antigen were negative. the giservice felt that her hepatocellular injury was most likelyattributable to an ischemic "shock liver" condition. she had aright upper quadrant ultrasound as well which demonstrated adilatation of the common bile duct to 1 cm with some biliarysludging but no evidence of obstructive lesions. given thepatient's isolated increase in ast and alt and bilirubin without anincrease in alkaline phosphatase , the diagnosis of ischemichepatotoxicity was entertained by the gi service. on the date ofdischarge , the patient's alt had fallen to 221 and her ast hadfallen to 50. her total bilirubin had fallen to 1.1. the patientwas asymptomatic from hepatic perspective throughout herhospitalization without any evidence of encephalopathy orasterixis. an isolated ammonia level was sent and it was 45.3. infectious disease: the patient had a repeat urinalysis thatwas sent on the morning following admission which was indicative ofurinary tract infection. urine culture eventually indicated aninfection with enterococcus. the patient received seven days ofampicillin while in house , following her initial first day dosingof ceftriaxone and clindamycin. the patient's urinary tractinfection clear symptomatically. she developed a yeast infectionin her vulvar area secondary to antibiotic therapy and this wastreated with topical nystatin. the patient was not discharged onantibiotics as she clinically cleared her infection.4. fvn: the patient had persistent hypomagnesemia while in houseand required significant magnesium repletion. the etiology of thishypomagnesemia was unclear; however , it was attributable to herchronic alcohol use and depletion of total magnesium stores. herelectrolytes clearly need to be followed closely as an outpatient.5. hematologic: the patient's inr slightly increased while inhouse but this is attributable to heparin bolus andsupratherapeutic prothrombin time. upon discharge , the patient'sinr had normalized. she received vitamin k 10 mg x 3 days asempiric treatment for vitamin k depletion secondary to chronicalcoholism as well as the possibility for hepatic syntheticdysfunction.6. hypotension: the patient's initial presentation forhypotension was attributable to dehydration; however , it becameclear that the patient normally exists with a low normal bloodpressure of approximately 80 to 100 systolic. it was stressed tothe patient that she must maintain adequate p.o. intake to maintainher circulating blood volume , as she seemed to be intolerant to theantihypotensive medicines that were used for cardioprotection. arandom cortisol was drawn and was normal. the issue of potentialrenal insufficiency was most likely excluded. the patient willfollow-up on endocrine and electrolyte issues with her primarydoctor.discharge medications: folic acid 1 mg p.o. q.day , nystatintopical cream , zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,multivitamin one q.day and aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.day.follow-up: the patient will follow-up with dr. elroy forcell inmes geert medical center on january . dr. aamodt was involved in thepatient's hospitalization and will provide excellent continuity ofcare as an outpatient.dictated by: porfirio fussner , m.d. da97attending: stacey c. etzler , m.d. hw9mk498/9708batch: 74541 index no. z9psbe22tv d: 9/15/99t: 6/22/99[report_end]