439208147 | epsmh | 68446510 | | 5619094 | 2/8/2006 12:00:00 am | congestive heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 3/18/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/4/2006attending: frymoyer , darren m.d.anticipated date of discharge: 11/16/06history of present illness:the patient is an 86-year-old male with multiple medical problemsincluding chf , coronary artery disease , type ii diabetes whopresented to the ochsantal medical center emergencydepartment on 5/28/06 , with subacute onset of shortness ofbreath. he had been bedridden for several months with right heelulcerations , and was scheduled to undergo operative repair ofthis ulceration , however , he began to feel short of breath oneday prior to admission. his o2 saturation was 70% on room air.upon presentation. he also described dull nonradiating chest painwith shortness of breath , which had resolved at the time thepatient arrived in the emergency department. he also hadincreased right knee pain for one week , presumably due to a combination of goutand oa. he was taking colchicine at that time aswell. by the time the patient had been seen in the emergencydepartment , his shortness of breath had improved significantly.past medical history:congestive heart failure , coronary artery disease statuspost angio x2 , peripheral vascular disease status postangioplasty in 2006 and angioplasty of right peroneal artery aswell as tibioperoneal trunk. the above-knee popliteal was alsoangioplastied on the right , gout in the right knee , atrialfibrillation , and chronic renal insufficiency.past surgical history:transurethral resection of the prostate , appendectomy.family history:father , diabetes and brother , heart disease.medications:ciprofloxacin , zoloft 50 mg q.a.m. , lipitor 20 mg q.p.m. ,coumadin 3 mg daily , aspirin 81 mg daily , dilaudid 2 mg p.o.q.a.m. , digoxin 0.125 mg q.a.m. , lasix 40 mg q.a.m. , colace 100mg b.i.d. , senna 1 tab at bedtime , neurontin 100 mg q.a.m. and200 mg at bedtime , lantus 42 units q.a.m. , lopressor 75 mgb.i.d. , and colchicine 0.6 daily.allergies:penicillin.physical examination:temperature 98 , heart rate 93 and regular. blood pressure112/68 , saturating 97% on 4 liters. generally: he is alert andoriented , lying in bed , and no distress. his chest has bibasilarcrackles , extending midway up his lung fields. no wheezes.cardiovascular: irregular rhythm , no murmurs , rubs , or gallops.abdomen: nontender , no masses. extremities: he has 2+ radialpulses and his lower extremity pulses are not palpable. he has aright foot dressing and is in a boot. neurologically: hiscranial nerves are intact bilaterally. his upper extremitystrength is 5/5.pertinent labs upon presentation:k 3.7 , bun 30 , creatinine 1.4 , and sugar 117. cbc 11.3 , 30.6 ,and 421. inr 2.2. cardiac enzymes: ck 21 , ck-mb 1.4 , troponinless than assay. digoxin level 1.1. ua normal.imaging:chest x-ray increased vascular congestion. ekg , left ventricularhypertrophy , afib , digitalis changes.assessment:an 80-year-old male with history of coronary artery disease ,afib , peripheral vascular disease , gout in the setting of chfexacerbation.hospital course:the patient was subsequently admitted to the medicine servicewhere he was cared for until 1/15/06 .  during this time , thepatient's lasix was increased to 80 mg iv q.a.m. an attempt todiurese the patient with a goal i/o of negative 1 liter aday. he was continued on his digoxin and metoprolol. he wasruled out for cardiac event with three negative sets of cardiacenzymes. he was started on a bowel regimen of colace , senna andmiralax p.r.n. due to constipation. regarding his right kneepain , the rheumatology service was consulted on 7/10/06 andrecommended two views of his right knee , which were significantfor a small effusion and severe osteoarthritis. recommendedtylenol , opioids for pain and continued colchicine.intraarticular steroids were discussed , however , deferred untilafter surgical intervention. a foley catheter was placed tomonitor his i's and o's closely. he was also started ontamsulosin for his bph. regarding his hematologic status , hiscoumadin was initially continued , however , due to a plannedplastic surgery intervention , starting on 7/10/06 .  the patientdid receive several doses of p.o. vitamin k preoperatively , whichbrought his inr down to 1.3 prior to surgery. thus on 1/15/06 ,mr. rochat was taken to the operating room for debridement of hisright achilles ulceration and split thickness skin graft.postoperatively , he was transferred to the plastic surgeryservice. on postop day #1 , the rheumatology service was againconsulted for persistent right knee pain. they elected at thattime to inject steroids intraarticularly. there was not enoughfluid for aspiration , however.postoperative hospital course by systems:neurologically: the patient tolerated p.r.n. dilaudid. he wascontinued on his doses of neurontin and zoloft.cardiovascularly: he has continued on digoxin and metoprolol forrate control of his atrial fibrillation. he was also continuedon 80 mg daily of lasix , which was decreased to 40 mg afterrecommendations from the medicine service. the patient did havean episode of bradycardia into the 30s on 5/12/06 , which wasbelieved to be secondary to excessive beta blockade. thus hislopressor dose was decreased to 25 mg t.i.d.respiratory: the patient has been saturating well on room airwithout pulmonary complaints.gi: the patient has been tolerating his diet and having bowelmovements.gu: the patient's foley catheter was removed on 5/12/06 .  thepatient voided without complication. he has continued histamsulosin.hematologically: he was placed back on his home dose of coumadinand his aspirin was restarted. his hematocrit was stablepostoperatively at 27.8 and has continued to be stable and iscurrently 29.4. he has also been maintained on subcutaneousheparin t.i.d. for dvt prophylaxis.id: the patient was started on clindamycin postoperatively forgraft prophylaxis. he has been afebrile and his white count hasbeen normal and is currently 7.8.endocrine: he has been maintained on lantus and novolog beforemeals and a novolog sliding scale , which have been titratedaccording to his blood sugars. his insulin regimen is currently ,lantus 32 units daily , and novolog sliding scale , and novolog 4units before meals.rheumatologically: the patient has been followed by therheumatology service for right knee gout. the intraarticularsteroid injection improved his pain minimally and thus therheumatology service is currently planning on injection ofsynvisc intraarticularly. the rheumatology service alsorecommended a right knee mri , which was obtained ( showed severe oa , goutychanges ). regarding his wound , his dressings were takendown on 11/16/06 and his skin graft appeared to be taking well.his donor site is clean , dry , and intact as well and he isreceiving heat lamp treatments daily. regarding his mobility ,the patient has been limited significantly due to his severeright knee pain. the physical therapist will work with thepatient on 11/16/06 , which is the first day that his skin graftdressings have been taken down.pertinent physical exam upon discharge:the patient is alert and oriented x3 in no apparent distresswhile he is resting. when he attempts to move his right lowerextremity , he does complain of significant right knee pain.cardiovascular is irregularly irregular. his lungs are clearsuperiorly and slightly decreased in the bases. his abdomen issoft , nontender , and nondistended. extremities: his right legdonor site is clean , dry , and intact with xeroform in place. hisright lower extremity skin graft was taking well with xeroform inplace. his right knee is swollen and tender to palpation. thepatient has pain with passive and active range of motion.discharge medications:acetaminophen 325 mg p.o. q. 6h. p.r.n. pain , clindamycin600 mg iv , colchicine 0.6 mg p.o. b.i.d. , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o.daily , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , iron sulfate 325 mg p.o. daily ,lasix 40 mg q.a.m. , heparin 5000 units subcutaneous t.i.d. ,metoprolol 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. , senna two tabs p.o. b.i.d. ,coumadin 3 mg p.o. q.p.m. , zoloft 50 mg p.o. q.a.m. , zocor 40 mgp.o. at bedtime , neurontin 100 mg p.o. q.a.m. , 200 mg p.o.q.p.m. , tamsulosin 0.4 mg p.o. daily , nexium 20 mg p.o. daily ,lantus 32 units subcutaneous daily , novolog 4 units subcutaneousa.c. , and novolog sliding scale as well. p.r.n. meds include ,tylenol 325 mg p.o. q. 6h. p.r.n. pain , dilaudid 1-2 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain , milk of magnesia 30 ml p.o. daily , and maalox1-2 tablets p.o. q. 6h. p.r.n. upset stomach.discharge instructions:the patient should follow up with dr. mammoccio in one to two weeks.he should also follow up with his primary care physician in oneto two weeks. the patient should have his inrs checked two tothree times per week with goal inr of 2-3 for treatment of afib.he should also have heat lamp treatment to his split thicknessskin graft donor site 20 minutes t.i.d. until the xeroform fallsoff. the split thickness skin graft site should be changed dailywith xeroform and kerlix dressing. the patient is currentlyscheduled for an mri while inpatient , however , if he does notreceive his mr while in house , he needs to have an outpatient mrischeduled. please refer to the discharge summary for finaldetails including a final list of medications and the plansregarding mri.escription document: 0-5549456 emssten teldictated by: brechbill , woodrowattending: cambero , cyrildictation id 1033255d: 11/16/06t: 11/16/06