358247113 | chmc | 84503929 | | 2918518 | 7/7/2006 12:00:00 am | heart failure | unsigned | dis | admission date: 1/18/2006 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 2/28/2006attending: morrone , neal lionel mddeath summarydate of death:5/23/06 .history of present illness:mr. zicherman was a 59-year-old who was admitted to dalewan on 7/25/06 from an outside hospital with adeteriorating ischemic cardiomyopathy. he had a myocardial infarction in 1996and subsequently had coronary artery bypass grafting also in 1996 withsubsequent occlusion of two grafts. he had four previous stents in nativevessels , had a biventricular icd placed in 2000 , and he also had a history ofhypertension and hyperlipidemia.he was admitted with increasing signs and symptoms of heart failure and hadgone from class i failure to class iv over the 18 months prior to admission. hewas noted to have a bnp of 1600 and was being treated for pneumonia onadmission. he was initially evaluated for heart transplantation , but due toclinical deterioration was considered for ventricular assist device. herequired inotropic support prior to surgery. there is no other surgicalhistory of note.past medical history:as mentioned , also a history of mild polycythemiaand thrombocytopenia.family / social history:both parents had coronary artery bypass grafts. he had an80-pack-year cigarette smoking history.drug history:at the time of assessment , he was receiving amiodarone 200 mgthree times a day , digoxin 0.125 mg once daily , aspirin 81 mgonce daily , heparin continuous infusion , lasix continuousinfusion , dobutamine continuous infusion , milrinone continuousinfusion , spironolactone 25 mg once daily.physical examination:examination revealed a midline sternotomy , respiratory cracklesbilaterally and a pansystolic murmur.hospital course:on 6/16/06 , he underwent cardiac catheterization which showedcomplete occlusion of om2 , proximal rca , proximal lad , 90%occlusion of the d1 , 100% occlusion of the ramus , 100% occlusionof om1. his lima to lad graft was patent. he had a completeocclusion of vein graft to rca , 50% occlusion of vein graft tod2. he was also noted to have pulmonary hypertension with meanpa pressure of 48 mmhg and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of33. his cardiac output was 3.5 liters on dobutamine andmilrinone infusions. echocardiogram showed an ejection fractionof 15% , trivial ai , mild mr , moderate tr. ekg revealed atrialflutter at a rate of 104. chest x-ray was consistent withcongestive heart failure.on 11/22/06 , he underwent reoperative insertion of a heartmate left ventricularassist device and tricuspid valvuloplasty. he was unable to toleratechest closure at the end of procedure as his central venouspressure was high.postoperatively he was coagulopathic and inotrope and nitric oxide dependant.on postoperative day #2 , some progress was made weaning inotropes and onpostoperative day #3 , he had a chest closure with a pericardial patch. he alsounderwent exploratory laparotomy and sustained a vt arrest requiringdiscontinuation of cardioversion. he continued to require nitricoxide in view of high pulmonary vascular resistance. on 6/13/06 , he had afurther episodes of ventricular fibrillation and had multiple electricalcardioversions and required amiodarone and epinephrine. eventually , heconverted to av paced rhythm. at this time , he required continued to requiresignificant inotropic support. he subsequently continued to have multipleepisodes of ventricular fibrillation which were converted with his aicd. atthis stage due to his ongoing hemodynamic instability , he was paralysed withnimbex , and his nitric oxide was increased for ongoing pulmonary hypertension.he continued to be hemodynamically ustable. on postoperative day #5 ,he developed cool and dusky extremities and was started onbivalirudin although at this stage his hit screen was negative. he also becamefebrile with temperatures to 103. on postoperative days #6 , 7 and 8 , his papressures slowly began to improve and some slow progress was made weaning hisepinephrine. at this stage , his bilirubin began to increase and he developedsome melanotic stool. he also developed renal failure and bythis stage , his creatinine increased to 2.9. by postoperativeday #9 , his nimbex and fentanyl infusions were stopped. his pamean pressure had reduced to less than 30. he became febrilefevers and developed some purulent discharge from the vad driveline.on postoperative day #12 , he underwent fluoroscopic placement ofa post-pyloric feeding tube and continued to spike temperatures.his bilirubin continued to rise , and his ammonia level had alsorisen. on postoperative day #14 , he continued to be unstablewith deteriorating liver function , ongoing renal failure ,metabolic acidosis , ongoing fevers , hemodynamically instabilityand episodes of ventricular tachycardia. he also had by thisstage developed irreversible loss of fingers and toes. due tohis unrelenting and deteriorating multisystem organ failure , afamily meeting was held at which the poor prognosis wasdiscussed. the family elected to withdraw all support and on5/23/06 , the aicd was switched off as was the ventilator and theventricular assist device and comfort measures were instituted.mr. desilvo died at 7:30 p.m. on 5/23/06 from multiple organfailure secondary to complications of ischemic cardiomyopathy andplacement of ventricular assist device.escription document: 0-2100988 emssten teldictated by: mira , buddyattending: gattshall , bennett cristopherdictation id 8090452d: 6/10/06t: 6/10/06