422349436 | crqhs | 25687760 | | 755264 | 4/24/1997 12:00:00 am | unstable angina | unsigned | dis | admission date: 4/26/1997 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 5/23/1997principal diagnosis: coronary artery disease.procedure performed: four vessel coronary artery bypass graft.history of present illness: the patient is a 61 year old womanwith a history of chronic renalfailure , hypertension , diabetes mellitus and morbid obesity with along history of coronary artery disease and angina. the patientpresented to the hospital with recurrent chest tightness withradiation to her left arm associated with shortness of breath ,nausea , vomiting and headache. the patient had similar episodes inthe same prior to presentation. these are not associated withexercise which was new for her.in the emergency room the patient received aspirin and nitro-pastealong with beta blockers. her ekg at that time demonstrated 2 to 3mm st depressions in her lateral leads. ck at that time was 634with an mb of 30. her troponin i came back at 12.8. the patientwas admitted at that time with a diagnosis of nonq-wave myocardialinfarction.past medical history: noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus.hypertension. morbid obesity. cataractsurgery. coronary artery disease. angina ( as above ).medications: hytrin 20 mg q.h.s. , humulin nph 175 mg q. a.m. ,45 q. p.m. , regular 45 q. a.m. , 10 q. p.m. ,lisinopril 40 mg q.d. , micronase 10 mg b.i.d. , verapamil sr 240 mgb.i.d.allergies: no known drug allergies.physical examination: she was a morbidly obese woman in noapparent distress. blood pressure 142/74 ,pulse 78 , respiratory rate 20 , temperature 99.9 , sats are 97% onfour liters. head , eyes , ears , nose and throat: no dentalpathology. oropharynx is clear. sclerae are anicteric. neck -supple with full range of motion. there is no jugular venousdistention. no carotid bruits. cardiac - revealed a regular rateand rhythm , normal s1 and s2 without murmurs , rubs or gallops.lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally with minimal cracklesat the bases. abdomen - benign with positive bowel sounds and nomasses identified. extremities - without edema and without venousvaricosities. distal pulses were 2+ bilaterally. neurological -nonfocal. rectal - guaiac negative.laboratory data: admission - significant for a glucose elevatedat 211 , but otherwise normal.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the cardiologyservice and ruled in for nonq-wave myocardialinfarction. she underwent cardiac catheterization 7 of february where a100% proximal dominant circumflex artery stenosis was noted alongwith 60% proximal lad and 80% rca stenosis.the patient underwent pca of her circumflex which at that time wasnot successful. postoperatively she did well , but had persistentchest pain. she did underwent cardiac catheterization 27 of junewhich revealed 40% residual stenosis of the dominant leftcircumflex. at that time , coronary steps were placed. the patienthowever , continued to experience substernal chest pain and dyspneaover the ensuing days. the patient also experienced flashpulmonary edema and was transferred to the coronary care unit. atthat time it was decided that her attempts at angioplasty wereunsuccessful. she was evaluated for coronary artery bypassgrafting.she was taken to the operating room on 3 of september where she underwentfour vessel bypass ( lima to lad , saphenous vein graft to r1 andthen jumped to om and lastly saphenous vein graft to pda ). shetolerated this procedure well and was transferred to the cardiacintensive care unit. she was maintained on triple antibiotics tocover the potential sequela of a superficial cordis site skininfection. sputum sent from postoperative day #1 demonstratedpseudomonas in her sputum. chest x-ray showed the evolution of aright basilar consolidation. she was placed on ofloxacin andpiperacillin to cover the pseudomonas. she was slow to extubatebut ultimately did on 18 of may the rest of her postoperative coursewas significant for steady wean of her oxygen requirement withconcomitant aggressive diuresis. she was covered with ofloxacinand piperacillin throughout the rest of her hospital course withresolution of her right lower lobe pneumonia demonstrated on chestx-ray. she experienced no further substernal chest pain during herhospitalization.in the immediate postoperative period , she did experience someconfusion but this resolved spontaneously and her neurological examwas completely nonfocal.the patient was evaluated by physical therapy and it was theirassessment that she was somewhat unable and given her livingsituation , she was recommended for rehabilitation.additionally , her leg wounds and her chest wound have continued todrain somewhat throughout the hospital course. there is noapparent evidence of significant infection in either site. if someminor infection were to develop , it should be covered adequatelywith the ofloxacin or piperacillin that she is currently taking.discharge medications: enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. ,colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. , insulin nph 60units in the morning , 20 units in the evening , lisinopril 10 mgq.d. , percocet 1-2 tabs p.o. q3-4h , verapamil 80 mg t.i.d. ,piperacillin 3 grams iv q4h for an additional four days from thetime of discharge. ofloxacin 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. for an additionalfour days , lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. , albuterol inhalers twopuffs t.i.d. p.r.n. wheezing.diet: low fat ada diet , 1800 calories a day.activities: as tolerated.follow-up: dr. feeney in four weeks , cardiologist in one week.condition on discharge: stable.disposition: to rehabilitation.dictated by: phillip w. jasmer , m.d. gp32attending: young j. westermark , m.d. qf7bp588/7561batch: 9099 index no. merg5s76nn d: 6/9/97t: 6/9/97