608074171 | ch | 62451179 | | 4737434 | 4/10/2006 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | unsigned | dis | admission date: 7/14/2006 report status: unsigneddischarge date:attending: michaels , tyrell merlin mdprincipal diagnoses: coronary artery disease , left ventricularaneurysm.problem list:1. congestive heart failure.2. atrial fibrillation.3. coronary artery disease.history of present illness: briefly , this is a 64-year-oldgentleman with a history of an anterior myocardial infarction in1976 with resultant left ventricular aneurysm and congestiveheart failure with an ejection fraction of approximately 20%. hehas had increasing chest pain with exertion over the lastseveral years , which led to an evaluation for ischemia.catheterization at the ville tionsgon county hospital in flint ent nyjer showed a 70% leftmain lesion and a previously known 100% lad , om and rca disease.the patient had previously undergone a spect thallium scan2/3/06 in moineslumvale ri cons , which showed a large anterior anteroseptalinfarct involving the septum , anterior wall and apical walls thatwere entirely scarred and the lateral wall viabilitywas unclear on that scan. a chest ct performed in october of 2006 showed alarge left ventricular dilation with remodeling and calcified andthinned left ventricular apex. his past history is also notablefor a history of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia dating backto 1983. he had his first aicd placed in 1990 at woodtwin memorial hospitaland this was replaced at the pmc in 1993 with a rate-sensing lead viathe left subclavian vein , and in 1997 , a cpi mini aicd wasplaced. on presentation on this admission , he did not have ahistory of angina , but did have a history of class iii heartfailure with marked limitation of physical activity. he was inatrial fibrillation , which is his baseline rhythm.past medical history: as mentioned above , includes also diabeteswith oral treatment only , hypothyroidism , dyslipidemia and gout.past surgical history: his past surgical history is notable fora cholecystectomy in 80s and icd placed via an open chest in1990 , replacement in 1992 and in 1997 , appendectomy , rightinguinal hernia repair in 1986.family history: his family history is unremarkable , no historyof coronary artery disease.social history: the patient has an eight-pack year cigarettesmoking history. he has an alcohol intake of two drinks permonth and the patient was formerly a dentist.allergies: his allergies include erythromycin giving a rash ,amiodarone with a suspected pulmonary toxicity and elevated lfts.medications on admission:1. toprol 25 mg p.o. daily.2. valsartan 80 mg p.o. daily.3. digoxin 0.125 mg daily.4. isosorbide 30 mg b.i.d.5. aspirin 81 mg daily.6. coumadin 1.5 mg daily.7. furosemide 80 mg p.o. b.i.d.8. simvastatin 40 mg daily.9. coreg 25 mg b.i.d.10. synthroid 50 mcg daily.11. allopurinol 100 mg daily.12. potassium 20 meq daily.13. klonopin 0.5 mg b.i.d.14. glucophage 500 mg b.i.d.physical examination on admission: notable for this gentlemanwho was 5 feet 10 inches and 95 kg in no acute distress. hisvital signs were temperature of 97.8 , heart rate of 70 , bloodpressure of 122/70 and oxygen saturation 98% on room air. he hadno detectable carotid bruits. examination of the chest wasnotable for a midline sternotomy scar that was well healed and anirregular rhythm. no murmurs were appreciated. his breathsounds were clear and equal bilaterally. his abdomen was notablefor scars from a previous right cholecystectomy and a left lowerquadrant incision for placement of icd. there were no masses andthe abdomen was soft and nontender. his extremities were withoutscaring or edema and he did not have varicosities present.laboratory data on admission: an echocardiogram performed at thebeauton geson health care services on 9/24/06 showed an ejectionfraction of 25% with mild mitral insufficiency , mild tricuspidinsufficiency and an aicd wire in the right heart.operation procedures: on 6/16/06 , the patient underwent amitral valve repair with an alfieri suture , a cabg x3 with ay-graft saphenous vein; svg2 connects svg1 to lvb1 , svg1 connectsto aorta to om1 , svg3 to ramus , a left ventricular aneurysmrepair and epicardial lead placement. the bypass time was 257minutes. the cross-clamp time was 98 minutes.icu course:1. neurologic: the patient was brought to the intensive careunit from the operating room on a propofol drip. he wasadequately sedated. sedation was weaned and he was extubatedwithout incident. the patient's pain was well controlled withp.r.n. toradol. this was transitioned over to motrin and he wastaking p.o.s and p.r.n. morphine. he also was continued on hisown dose of clonazepam 2.5 mg b.i.d. he was neurologicallyintact throughout the course of his icu stay and he wastransferred to floor with no focal deficits , moving allextremities and pain that is well controlled.2. cardiovascular: the patient was brought to the icu onneosynephrine , epinephrine and milrinone drips. the milrinone wasinitially given a weaning trial , but his mixed venous oxygensaturations dropped to the high 40s and low 50s and the milrinonewas restarted. the neosynephrine was the first drip to bediscontinued and the patient remained on milrinone andepinephrine. both of these were slowly weaned , the epinephrinecoming off first and the milrinone coming off two days prior totransfer out of the icu. he was in rapid atrial fibrillation andwas initially loaded with digoxin , which did improve the ratetransiently. he continued to have marginal mixed venous oxygensaturation and poor cardiac performance as assessed by cardiacoutput and cardiac index. postoperatively , he had an intraaorticballoon pump. the intraaortic balloon pump remained in untilpostoperative day# 9 when it was discontinued. slowly the dripswere weaned. he was started on an afterload reducing agent ,first a drip of sodium nitroprusside , after he had had a trial ofesmolol. the esmolol did improve his rates slightly but did notsignificantly improve his cardiac output or his mixed venousoxygen saturation. he did seem to have improvement with theafterload reducing agent of sodium nitroprusside. his rapidatrial fibrillation remained refractory to medical treatment. hewas given trial of ibutilide , which did not significantly changehis rate or convert him into sinus rhythm. he was loaded withamiodarone in spite of his prior history of pulmonary and hepatictoxicity with plan to use a short course of amiodarone to improvethe rate. his rate did improve. he remained in atrialfibrillation and did not convert to sinus. on postoperative day8 , he was taken to the operating room and cardiovertedsuccessfully to sinus rhythm. transesophageal echocardiogramshowed an ejection fraction of 30% and no clots in the atrialventricles. he remained in a sinus rhythm for approximatelythree days until postoperative day 11 when he switched back intoatrial fibrillation that was refractory to ibutilide. attemptedcardioversion was done the following day , which failed , and heremained in atrial fibrillation on transfer to the floor. hisrate was better controlled in the 80s to 90s and he was on aregimen of digoxin , afterload-reducing agent captopril 25 mg q.6h. and low-dose lopressor 6.25 mg q.i.d. his pulmonary arterycatheter was discontinued prior to transfer to the floor , and ontransfer to the floor , his mixed venous oxygen saturation wasimproved in the high 50s to low 60s.3. pulmonary: initially , the patient required bipap while inthe intensive care unit. he needed an aggressive diuresis toimprove his pulmonary status but transfer to the floor , he wasdown to 3 l nasal cannula and he was able to ambulate and get outof bed.4. gi: the patient was initially started on clear liquids andwas taking very minimal p.o.'s because he had a significant bipaprequirement. as the bipap was weaned , his diet was advanced andhe was tolerating a regular diet on transfer to floor. he didhave several episodes of diarrhea. fecal leukocytes andclostridium difficile were sent and were negative and thediarrhea was resolving on transfer to the floor.5. gu: the patient was aggressively diuresed with a lasix dripand with diuril boluses. his creatinine tolerated theaggressively diuresis. his sodium remained low in the 130s andhe was transitioned off the lasix drip to p.o. lasix andcontinued to be negative on transfer to the floor.6. endocrine: the patient has a history of diabetes andhypothyroidism. he was maintained on dose of synthroid initiallyiv. then , that was transitioned to p.o. when he was toleratingp.o.'s. he was on subcutaneous insulin and his sugars were wellcontrolled. initially , he was on portland protocol and was thentransitioned to subcutaneous insulin.7. heme: the patient was anticoagulated with heparin initiallyfor the intraaortic balloon pump and atrial fibrillation. he didhave a marked drop in his platelets and was positive forheparin-induced thrombocytopenia. he was started on argatrobanand bridged to coumadin. on transfer to the floor , he remains onargatroban with a goal ptt of 50 to 70 and he is getting coumadinwith goal inr 2 to 3.8. infectious disease: the patient had an elevated while bloodcell count throughout the course of his icu hospital stay. hehad the intraaortic balloon pump in place for nine days. he wasseen by id and his only positive blood culture was acoag-negative staph that was believe to be a contaminant. he wason vancomycin for many days that was not discontinued. he doeshave a history of right knee gout , which did flare while he wasin the intensive care unit and part of his elevated blood cellcount was attributed to that. he was started on colchicine andallopurinol.discharge medications: on transfer to the floor , the patient wason following medications:1. captopril 25 mg p.o. q.6 h.2. lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. q.i.d.3. digoxin 0.125 mg daily.4. lasix 40 mg p.o. t.i.d.5. allopurinol 100 mg p.o. daily.6. aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.7. clonazepam 0.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.8. colchicine 0.6 mg p.o. daily.9. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.10. regular insulin sliding scale.11. synthroid 50 mcg p.o. daily.12. magnesium and potassium scales.13. ambien 5 mg p.o. at bedtime.14. nexium 40 mg p.o. daily.15. lantus 12 units subcutaneously at bedtime.16. darbepoetin alfa 40 mcg subcutaneous.17. novolog sliding scale and novolog four units subcutaneouslywith lunch and six units with dinner.disposition: he was transferred to the floor in stablecondition.follow-up: he will need continued evaluation with physical andoccupational therapy.escription document: 5-7373774 cssten teldictated by: luckett , josiahattending: circle , carey mitchdictation id 3682207d: 5/1/06t: 5/1/06