record #165885315661630 | bumc | 94980326 | | 619742 | 6/13/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | unsigned | dis | admission date: 4/8/1994 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 10/20/1994discharge diagnosis: colon cancer status post sigmoid colectomywith a primary anastomosis.history of present illness: patient is a 73 year old male whoimmigrated from co garlpaaran approximatelyfifteen years ago. he has had a several year history ofconstipation but no melena , hematochezia , weight loss , nightsweats , chills , abdominal pain , or change in size/caliber of stool.his daughters were concerned about the long history of constipationand therefore scheduled a colonoscopy. on 8/18/94 , the patientunderwent a colonoscopy at talchip harb community hospital and a mass wasnoted in the transverse colon. a biopsy was taken and the resultsare not known but were reported to dr. jorski as colon cancer.ct of the abdomen on 2/18/94 revealed no adenopathy or evidence ofmetastasis but an infrarenal ivc dilatation of approximately 3 cm.past medical history: non-insulin dependent diabetes times tenyears , coronary artery disease with a history of coronary arterybypass graft in 1990 , hypercholesterolemia , and low back pain.past surgical history: significant for an appendectomy as a youngman and a coronary artery bypass graft times three vessels in 1990.current medications: glyburide 2.5 mg q.d. and lovastatin 20 mgq.d. allergies: no known drug allergies.physical examination: blood pressure was 104/64 , temperature 97.6 ,and pulse 54. general: cooperativegentleman , well-nourished , well-developed , and in no acutedistress. heent: within normal limits. lungs: clear toauscultation bilaterally. heart: regular rhythm and rate with nomurmurs , gallops , or rubs with a midline scar from sternotomy.abdomen: soft , non-tender , non-distended , positive bowel sounds ,liver , spleen , and kidney non-palpable , and no masses palpable.rectal: guaiac negative with normal tone and prostate was smoothand not enlarged. extremities: no cyanosis , clubbing , or edema.pulses: slightly decreased in the left posterior tibial anddorsalis pedis as compared to the right but present.laboratory examination: ekg showed normal sinus rhythm with noischemia or infarct.hospital course: the patient was admitted and pre-operatively , wasseen by a cardiology consultant who cleared thepatient for surgery and recommended following serial ck , mb , andekg but not a formal rule out protocol. the patient was taken tothe operating room on 9/29/94 where he underwent a mid transverseto mid descending colectomy and primary anastomosis. the patienttolerated the procedure well and was stable post-operatively.patient continued to progress well without any difficulty and hadno evidence of ischemia or changes on the ekg. on post-operativeday number three , the patient developed a productive cough andchest x-ray was obtained which showed only atelectasis and smallbilateral effusions but no consolidation or infiltrate. patientwas encouraged to cough and deep breath and the productive coughresolved without any antibiotic treatment. the nasogastric tubewas discontinued on post-operative day number five and the patientbegan tolerating clear sips without any difficulty. bypost-operative day number six , the patient was on a regular dietand had a bowel movement times six. patient was discharged onpost-operative day number seven without any complications.disposition: discharge medications: glyburide 2.5 mg q.d. ,lovastatin 20 mg q.d. , aspirin one q.d. , colace 100mg b.i.d. , axid 150 mg b.i.d. , percocet one to two q.4-6h. p.r.n.pain. the disposition on discharge is no heavy lifting times sixweeks and the patient is to follow-up with dr. philbeck in seven toeight days for staple removal from his wound. pathology wasadenocarcinoma of the colon 4 cm in size , clear margins , and tenout of ten nodes were negative. it was duke's class b2. patientis discharged home in stable condition.dictated by: roland r. neto , m.d. jj16attending: dennis o. strohschein , m.d. cu6oo431/5833batch: 1585 index no. ifvt3692b6 d: 5/9/94t: 4/26/94[report_end]