471946860 | ah | 90313239 | | 0057402 | 2/10/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 2/10/2005 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: pasculli , monty m. m.d.principal diagnosis on admission: acute coronary syndrome.diagnosis at discharge: includes the following; st elevationacute myocardial infarction.other diagnosis at discharge: post-mi pericarditis , muralthrombus , type ii diabetes mellitus , colonoscopy with colonpolypectomy in 1991 , hypercholesterolemia , status post umbilicalhernia repair , and questionable hypertension.history of present illness and hospital course: ms. scorzelli is72-year-old female with a history of hypercholesterolemia , typeii diabetes mellitus , past smoking , and questionablehypertension , but no known cardiac disease , who presented to thishospital with vague epigastric pain/chest pain exacerbated bydeep inspiration and on lying flat. the pain persisted for morethan 48 hours , 10/10 in intensity and prevented her from sleepfinally leading to her presentation to the emergency departmenton july , 2005 , where ekg showed q waves in the anteriorleads with st elevation in inferior leads ii , iii , and avf. shehad elevated enzymes. her troponin peaked to 20. a bedsidetransthoracic echo showed anterior wall motion abnormality. shewas started on aspirin , heparin , plavix , integrilin , andlopressor , and the patient was taken to the catheterization labwhere she was found to have a 100% proximal lad lesion and a hazy90% lesion to the ramus. two cypher stents were deployed to thelad. the procedure is complicated by no-reflow phenomenon. onecypher stent was placed in the ramus branch. right heartcatheterization revealed ra of 12 , rv 36/7 , pa 38/18 , and nostep-up in oxygenation in the right heart. the patient wastransferred to the ccu where her chest pain persisted. the painwas positional , increased by deep inspiration and it was felt tobe likely post-mi pericarditis. her ekg changes persisted , buther enzymes clearly were trending downwards. the diagnosis ofpost-mi pericarditis is consistent with echo findings showingadhesions between the myocardium and pericardium. anechocardiogram obtained after the percutaneous coronaryintervention showed an lvef of 35%. the left ventricular sizewas normal. the right ventricle was normal in size and thethickness of the right ventricle was also normal. there was mildtricuspid regurgitation. there was mild pericardial thickeningwith the areas of adhesions at the pericardium near the apex andthere was a trivial pericardial effusion. also , a mural sessilethrombus was observed near the apex of the heart. her ekgchanges continued to show st elevation in lead ii , iii , avf , v2through v6 , q waves in d2 , d3 , and avf , and she also intermittentright bundle-branch block morphology. she was treated forischemia with ace inhibitors and beta-blockers titrated toachieve a pulse in the 70s to 80s. we did not increase itfurther because of her low ejection fraction she was unlikely totolerate such high doses. she was started on aspirin and plavix ,which she continued for her myocardial function. she was placedon eplerenone and lasix to achieve a dry weight estimated to be78 kilograms. this should be her goal weight. she has also beenreceiving captopril , ace inhibitors , for left ventricularremodeling. rhythm wise , there has been no arrhythmia noted ontelemetry on which she has been throughout her hospital stay.for her pericarditis , she initially received 650 mg of aspirin 4times a day. she was continued on this , but later the dose wasreduced as other anticoagulants were started. she was giventramadol for her pain with improvement of her pericarditis pain.given her mural thrombus , she was anticoagulated initially withheparin achieving the therapeutic ptt of 80 secondsapproximately. she was later bridged to coumadin with a targetinr of 2. a higher inr should be avoided thus to avoidhemopericardium. endocrine wise , she was treated for herdiabetes with an insulin regimen that consists of lantus andregular insulin. a cardiac mri was obtained on february , 2005 ,with following findings. she had moderate to global leftventricular dysfunction with basal to distal and anteroseptalakinesis , apical akinesis , and distal inferior dyskinesis. herestimated ef was 38%. there is full-thickness delayedenhancement of the myocardium indicating a 7th segment , out ofthe total of 17 segments , myocardial infarction. there was alarge area of no-reflow within the myocardial infarction , whichis consistent with microvascular thrombosis. the distal or thefree wall is also hypokinetic raising the possibility of rightventricular involvement from the myocardia l infarction. aconcentric moderate-sized pericardial effusion with exudativefeatures was also seen. the thickest area of the pericardialeffusion appears to be on the dependent aspect measuring 12 mm inthickness. there is no right ventricular or right atrialcollapse or compression. renal wise , she had no issues. hercreatinine was always below 1 , mostly 0.7 or 0.8.disposition: her plan for disposition is to go to rehab. shehas been evaluated by physical therapy.an addendum will be dictated with the current status of thepatient and her discharge medications at the time that she isactually discharged from the hospital.escription document: 2-5864714 issten teldictated by: piquette , avery sheldon jamieattending: carrino , stefan s.dictation id 7002690d: 7/9/05t: 7/9/05