record date: 2089-03-09reason for visit	annual physical exam.problems	  hypertensive heart disease	      s:  pt. has been treated for hypertension since 2064.  when she came to me in 2084 she'd been on accupril 5 mg. a day, but her bp was 180/80.  since that time, despite the administration of a variety of antihypertensives, her bp has rarely been normal and she insists that her bp is a function of having come to the doctor. in mar. 2087 she was hospitlaized with acute congestive heart failure and lasix was added to her regimen that included at that time norvasc, atacand and atenolol.  despite some peripheral edema, she continues on this regimen and says that she feels well.  she recently celebrated her 81st birthday surround by her seven children, and multiple grand- and great-grand children. o: bp 170/80; heart-- nsr wiohtout murmurs or gallopr.  ekg shows no lvh or strain pattern.  a: systolic hypertension.  patient is reluctant to increase or change her meds. p: continue present meds and will try and increase her medications on her next visit, a month from now.osteoarthritis	      s:  pt. takes indocin intermittently for pain in her hips, neck and hands.  she has a long history of osteoarthritis.o:  degenerative joint disease, with changes in hands and legs, and some distortion of the knees.  there is swelling of the joints of the hands, particularly both thumbs, but it does not interfere with her life.a: oa.  p:  will make no changes at this time.breast carcinoma	      s:  the pt. is seven years s/p modified left radical mastectomy, with 3 of 14 nodes involved, with a poorly differentiated intra-ductal carcinoma. she was t2 m1 n0.  she had been on tamoxifen 10 mg. b.i.d. for 5 years, but this was d/c'd in march 2086 by dr. quy cherry and she has had not sign of recurrence. she does, however, have a great deal of anxiety about the return of her malignancy and when her daughter found a "lump" in her back last week in the course of giving her a massage, she became convinced that her cancer had returned.o:  well-healed l modified radical mastectomy.  no axillary notes noted.  r breast appears normal.  pt. gets routine mammograms on the r breast. no lumps or masses were found in or on her back. chest x-ray today shows no nodular densities.a:  s/p left radical mastectomy for ca. of the breast, with no evidence of recurrence. p:  no further therapy indicated, but alk. phos. drawn along with routine chemistries.review of systems	patient says that she gets short of breath while climbing up stairs, and cannot walk more than a block or two without getting shortness of breath.  she always has edema in both legs, except when she arises in the a.m. at which time her legs are free of edema.  at the same time, she denies pnd and says that she sleeps on only one pillow. she denies chest pain, says that she eats well and has regular bms.  her biggest complaint now is urinary pressure and urgency.  she had been using a pessary for uterine decensus, but it was removed by gyn and she was prescribed local estrogen cream, which has not yet helped.  she was advised to call gyn for another visit, since she was scheduled about 6 weeks from now.medications	  atenolol	 25mg 2 tablet(s) po qamquinine	 260mg po x1lasix (furosemide)	 40mg 1 tablet(s) po bidnorvasc (amlodipine)	 5mg 1 tablet(s) po bidatacand (candesartan)	 32mg po qdk-dur (kcl slow rel.)	 20meq 1 tablet(s) po qdvital signs	  pulse:	 70   regularheight:	 57   inchesweight:	 140   poundsblood pressure:	 170/80   left armphysical exam	   heent	pupils react = to light. conjunctivae and sclerae - clear. fundi-normal. she is s/p bilateral lens implants.ears-clear. pharynx-clear. patient is completely edentulous with a well-fitting set of dentures.neck	no adenopathy or thyromegaly. no bruits.breast	r breast is free of nodules or nodes.  axillae free of nodes.  she has a l modified radical mastectomy with well-healed scar and no evidence of skin mets.  chest	clear to percussion and auscultation.cor	heart is nsr, without murmurs, gallops, clicks or ectopy, at 70 per minute.abdomen	no liver, spleen or other organs or masses.  no tenderness or guarding.extremity	minimal djd changes in her knees, but there are more marked djd changes in her hands, particularly both thumbs with some early subluxation.  good peripheral pulses.  no cyanosis or clubbing, but there is 1+ pitting edema of both ankles and the pre-tibial areas.neurological	station-gait; cranial nerves, dtr's, motor and sensory exams all wnl.disposition and plans	blood drawn for cbc, profile, lipids and tshurine --n.a.ekg--junctional rhythm without lvh or ectopy.patient sent for chest x-ray and to return in one month.