759844191 | amc | 95772914 | | 9487624 | 4/9/2003 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 4/9/2003 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: bradley friedrichsen m.d.diagnosis: left calcaneus osteomyelitis.history of present illness: mr. kubly is a 61-year-oldgentleman with type ii diabetes , coronary artery disease ,peripheral neuropathy and hypertension who presents forevaluation of a longstanding left heel ulcer and presumedcalcaneus osteomyelitis. he also has had multiple surgeries inthe past as well as hyperbaric oxygen and has been refractory tothese treatments. he has had a recent flare in 3/16 and hasbeen treated at eltham medical center .  at that time the wound grewout methicillin resistant staph aureus and e. coli. theseorganisms have been treated with vancomycin and zosyn. however ,an mri at that time was thought to be consistent withosteomyelitis. the patient presented for treatment of thisissue.additionally , the patient has had some left shoulder pain and wasadmitted at otjo goldtion hospital on 1/26/2003 . there was concern forsepsis at the sternoclavicular joint or perhaps at theglenohumeral joint. the patient had an mri at the outsidehospital which is not available to us but was concerning for someabnormal process at the sternoclavicular joint. the patientstates he still has some shoulder pain that localizes to thesternoclavicular joint. this seems to be improving over time.past surgical history: left heel ulcer and calcanealosteomyelitis , bph status post turp in 1984 , insulin diabetesmellitus , hypertension , coronary artery disease status post an miin 1991 , cataracts.allergies: to codeine.medications: the patient takes insulin nph 40 q.a.m. and 30q.p.m. , humalog 20 in the morning 60 at night , norvasc 5 once aday , allopril ( sp? ) 40 once a day , prilosec 20 once a day , k-dur10 once a day , lasix 40 once a day , enteric coated aspirin 80once a day , protonix 40 once a day , reglan 5 twice a day , xanax0.25 q.h.s.physical examination on admission: vital signs on admission arestable with a temperature of 98.4. a pleasant gentleman. clearlungs. heart regular rhythm. abdomen soft and nontender. leftheel has a 1.5 cm ulcer on the posterior aspect that appears totract deep to bone. he has generalized decreased neuropathy inthe foot and minimal ehl or fhl. he has 5/5 _____ with limitedrange of motion at the ankle.laboratory values on admission: white count of 6 , hematocrit of30 , sed rate of 111.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the hospital forevaluation and treatment of his calcaneous osteomyelitis. an mriwas obtained which was read with a bone radiologist andconsistent with osteomyelitis. the patient was taken fordebridement to the operating room , after preoperative clearanceby the medicine team , for debridement of calcaneal osteomyelitison 7/6/2003 ( see _____ of the procedure ). postoperatively thepatient was continued on vancomycin , levofloxacin and flagyl perthe infectious disease recommendations. the cultures from theprimary debridement ( in which the wound was able to be closed )was methicillin resistant staph aureus.the patient did well inhouse. his wound to the foot was changedwhile inhouse and looked intact , clean and dry without drainage.the drain was removed on postoperative day #4.regarding the patient's left sternoclavicular joint , ct scan wasobtained which was concerning for infection at thesternoclavicular joint. an mri was obtained to better image thearea and to determine whether or not there is some involvement ofthe clavicle. on the ct scan there was no obvious collectionamenable to surgical decompression. at the time of thisdictation the mri was pending.the patient had also had a preoperative consult with the plasticsurgery team but this was not necessary at the patient's woundwas able to be closed in the or. additionally , vascular studieswere obtained which were read as excellent pvrs preoperatively.follow up: the patient will follow up with the infectiousdisease team as well as primary care physician as well asorthopedic surgery team and dr. talburt one week after discharge.discharge medications: per the id record , vancomycin 1 gramq.24h as well as gatifloxacin 200 mg once a day. the patientwill continue his home medicines.labs: labs will be checked once per week by the primary carephysician.weightbearing: the patient will be tested on weightbearing ofthe left lower extremity.escription document: 4-1533995 dbssten teldictated by: truitt , angelattending: millerr , gavindictation id 2733659d: 1/12/03t: 1/12/03