admission date :2018-05-26discharge date :2018-06-13date of birth :1966-02-20sex :mservice :medicineallergies :patient recorded as having no known allergies to drugsattending : collette c. higa , m.d.chief complaint :altered mental statusmajor surgical or invasive procedure :intubatationcentral line placementhistory of present illness :52 y.o. male with esld due to hcv / etoh cirrhosis now with delta ms .recently d/c 'd on 05-15 after admission for hepatic encephalopathy versus opiate abuse .brought in by family for ams .no hx available at youville hospital katherine , except for abdominal pain .increasing tachypnea and tachycardia in leola , cxr with likely aspiration pna versus chf , intubated .started on levo / flagyl / ceftriaxone and lasix for sbp and questionable meningitis .past medical history :1. hcv/etoh cirrhosis2. h/o sbp3. esoph varices ( grade i )4. depression5. h/o ivdu ( heroin )6. recurrent arf7. h/o seizure8. chronic lbp9. anemiasocial history :the patient lives with his two sons .charles quit using cocaine , etoh , and iv heroin two years ago , and his son is unaware of any relapses .he currently smokes , about 1 ppd .family history :his father had hemochromatosis and dmii .physical exam :101.8 , 100 , 144/92 , 18 , 98% 3lnc lying in bed , oriented hospital only scleral icterus tachy but reg diffusely ttp and guaiac negative non-pitting brawny edema with lichenificationpertinent results : wbc 6.7 46% pmn 40% bands , na 128 tbili 9.1 , alb 2.3 , inr 2.1 , lactate 4.4 ecg unremarkable1st cxr normal ; 2nd prior to intubation ? rll opacity ( mild chf ? ) ascites :2900 wbc 98% pmn , suspcious for intra / extracellular bactbrief hospital course :sbp :pt admitted with e coli spb and bacteremia .was treated with ceftriaxone 2 gm iv daily with multiple repeat paracenteses .repeat taps did not revealed evidence of infection .patient was treated with 14 days of levoflox .resp failure :unclear etiology , but likely aspiration event in monica .treated aspiration pneumonia .weaning and potential extubation complicated by mechanical disadvantage from large ascites as well as continued somnolence ( off sedation ).we performed frequent large vol taps and attempted to give diuretics , but were limited by renal failure .the ascites quickly accumulated after each tap .patient was not a tips candidate .cirrhosis :end-stage cirrhosis with refractory ascites .each time we have initiated diuretics , creatinine rose .patient was continued on nadolol ( as bp tolerated ) and lactulose )renal failure :creatinine elevation appears to be related to both elevated abdominal pressures from ascites as well as to attempts at diuresis .ams :likely hepatic encepholopathy initially , and later likely related to sedation and delayed clearance from liver disease .patient became increasingly hypotensive with a rising cr , eventually becoming pressor dependent .family meeting was held to discuss grave prognosis , and patient was made cmo .he passed away shortly thereafter .medications on admission : patient passed awaydischarge medications : patient passed awaydischarge disposition :expireddischarge diagnosis : patient passed awaydischarge condition : patient passed awaydischarge instructions : patient passed awayfollowup instructions : patient passed awayefrain zavala md 02-024completed by : marcel l beatty , m.d.