773301161 | mh | 80680957 | | 657846 | 10/3/1999 12:00:00 am | syncope | signed | dis | admission date: 2/26/1999 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/17/1999service: the patient was cared for on cardiology team pro tampi corpprincipal diagnosis: syncope.additional diagnoses include: 1. coronary artery disease. 2.bradycardia. 3. diabetes mellitus. 4. hypertension. 5.chronic renal insufficiency.history of present illness: the patient is a 74-year-old male withhistory of acute inferior myocardial infarction in february of1998 , with total occlusion of the mid circumflex , with freshthrombus which was percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplastiedand stented. at catheterization in february , he was noted to have50 percent right coronary artery , as well. his hospital course atthat time was complicated by atrial fibrillation with mobitz type iblock. the patient was loaded on procainamide. he also hadseveral episodes of congestive heart failure. echocardiogram infebruary showed right ventricular dysfunction. at discharge , asubmaximum exercise tolerance test , the patient went three minutesand twenty-one seconds without evidence of ischemia. on the day ofadmission , the patient was in cardiac rehabilitation class when hebecame light-headed while seated and lost consciousness forapproximately five seconds. he regained full consciousness. hedenied chest pain , shortness of breath , chest tightness , fever ,chills , nausea or vomiting. he had no urine or stool incontinence ,and no focal abnormal motor movements were noted by observers. acode blue was called , and he went to the emergency department.electrocardiogram showed old inferior qs , prwp , and slightlyelevated t wave in v2 with left anterior fascicular block withheart rate of 49. initial ck was 39 with a troponin i of 0.02. hewas admitted to wa t s for further workup and treatment.past medical history: 1. coronary artery disease. 2. diabetesmellitus on insulin. 3. hypertension. 4. status post bilateralknee replacements. 5. asbestos exposure. 6. chronic renalinsufficiency.allergies: allergies to penicillin.medications on admission: 1. aspirin 325 mg q.d. 2. captopril75 mg t.i.d. 3. nph insulin 18 q.a.m. and 8 q.p.m. 4.procainamide 500 mg t.i.d. 5. simvastatin 20 mg once a day.social history: a 40 pack year history , quit four years ago.denies alcohol.physical examination on admission: a well-appearing gentleman , inno apparent distress. vital signs , afebrile , heart rate 50 , bloodpressure 111/87 , respirations 16 , 98 percent on two liters. heent ,atraumatic , normocephalic , oropharynx clear. neck , carotids 2+ , nobruits , no cervical adenopathy with the exception of a 2.0centimeter node in the occipital region. chest , clear toauscultation bilaterally. cardiovascular , bradycardic , regularrate and rhythm , normal s1 and s2. abdomen , positive bowel sounds ,soft , non-tender , nondistended , no hepatosplenomegaly.extremities , no edema , no other lymphadenopathy. neurologicalexamination , alert and oriented x three , non-focal.laboratory data: admission laboratory is significant for acreatinine of 1.6 and a potassium of 5.1. blood count were whiteblood cell count 5.5 , hematocrit 44.6 , platelets 233. ck 39 ,cardiac troponin i 0.02.hospital course: the patient is a 74-year-old male with history ofacute inferior myocardial infarction in february , complicated bypostmyocardial infarction atrial fibrillation and mobitz type iblock , now admitted following syncopal episode. theelectrophysiology service was consulted and prior toelectrophysiology study the patient underwent evaluation forpossible ischemic causes of an arrhythmia. he was initially ruledout for myocardial infarction by serial enzymes andelectrocardiograms. on standard bruce protocol exercise tolerancetest mibi , april , 1999 , the patient went four minutes andthirty seconds , maximum heart rate 121 , maximum blood pressure210/85. he had typical chest pain for angina and chest tightnessat peak exercise which was relieved with rest. there were noelectrocardiogram changes. he remained in sinus rhythm. mibiimages showed a mixed mi in basilar half of the inferior wall in4/20 segments , mild peri-infarct ischemia in 3/20 segments in theright coronary artery territory. he had normal left ventricularfunction , normal left ventricular volume , and global systolic leftventricular function with left ventricular ejection fraction of 55percent , wall motion abnormalities and severe inferior wallhypokinesis and mild septal hypokinesis. based on the results ofthe exercise tolerance test mibi , the patient underwent cardiaccatheterization on april , 1999 which revealed a normal leftmain , left anterior descending artery with minor irregularities ,left circumflex with 90 percent in-stent restenosis in proximalsegment with a dominant left circumflex , and right coronary arterywith a mid 50 percent lesion. the patient underwent successfulpercutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the in-stentrestenosis. he was subsequently continued on aspirin. theelectrophysiology service recommended that the patient'sprocainamide be stopped. of note , the patient's qt interval wasnot prolonged while on procainamide. after the procainamide washeld , the patient underwent electrophysiology study on october ,1999 revealing normal sinus node recovery time , impaired av nodalconduction , no inducible sustained ventricular tachycardia , and noinducible supraventricular tachycardia or atrial fibrillation. thepatient was discharged to home with plans to follow-up with hisprimary cardiologist , perhaps with a holter or event monitor.discharge medications include: 1. aspirin 325 mg q.d. 2.captopril 75 mg t.i.d. 3. nph humulin insulin 18 units q.a.m. and8 units q.p.m. 4. nitroglycerin sublingual tablets. 5. vitamine. 6. simvastatin 20 mg q.h.s.follow-up: the patient will be followed up by his primary caredoctor , in particular the posterior cervical single lymph nodeshould be followed up by his primary care physician.dictated by: woodrow beaudine , m.d. bo666attending: tyree r. capellan , m.d. gh9  pe270/8610batch: 49880 index no. p6vxjj2err d: 2/10/99t: 11/28/99