record #808792706384372 | th | 09002488 | | 6205910 | 5/18/2003 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 5/18/2003 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: deangelo mack peed mdms. mulready is a 90+-year-old woman with a history of coronaryartery disease including a non st elevation mi in 3/12medically managed , congestive heart failure with an ejectionfraction of 25% and severe aortic stenosis with a valve area of1.0 who was transferred from the ime tesion hospital with shortnessof breath several days after discharge from that hospital whereshe was treated for , a multilevel pneumonia and chf exacerbation.she had been hospitalized at ham11 eghe torsa health where she was treated forpneumonia and after treatment had returned to her rehabilitationfacility/skilled nursing facility where she was not eating andwas found to be very tachypneic and diaphoretic and tachycardiacfor the three days prior to admission here. the night prior toadmission , she had been readmitted to nordi medical center where shewas found to have a worsening chf exacerbation with symptomaticbradycardia with heart rate in the 20s. the patient receiveddiuresis , had a chest mra to rule out pulmonary embolism , whichwas negative and was transferred to redd hospitalfor telemetry. the bradycardia was thought to have been from arecent increase in the patient's toprol xl dose. on admission ,the patient was afebrile. temperature 96.5 , pulse in the 70s and80s , pressure 140/80 , breathing a 100% on four liters. examsignificant for an awake , alert , pleasant older women , very hardof hearing , decreased breath sounds with rhonchi right greaterthan left and decreased breath sounds in the right middle lobe ,poor inspiratory effort. exam also significant for a hardsystolic ejection murmur , crescendo decrescendo heard best at theright upper sternal border radiating to the carotids , alsoaudible at the apex. her jvp was at 12 cm. she had no lowerextremity edema. her labs were significant for a creatinine of2.7 , a slightly elevated dedimer at hen mekend medical center , a chest x-ray thatshowed a right middle lobe pneumonia that was resolving ,cardiomegaly.hospital course:1. cardiovascular: there was no evidence of acute ischemia. shehad a small elevation of her troponins in the morning afteradmission thought secondary perhaps to chf exacerbation orchronic renal insufficiency. she was restarted on a very lowdose of lopressor keeping atropine at her bedside in case ofsymptomatic bradycardia. she did have a heart rate occasionallyin the 40s during this hospitalization , but was asymptomaticthroughout. in terms of her rhythm , in addition to theasymptomatic bradycardia , she did have several runs ofnon-sustained ventricular tachycardia. these diminished withrepletion of magnesium and again were asymptomatic. theelectrophysiology was consulted and they did not feel that anyintervention was indicated given the asymptomatic nature of herarrhythmias. in terms of her congestive heart failureexacerbation was thought to be the primary reason for hertachypnea and dyspnea. she was diuresed gently given her aorticstenosis and tolerated well a net fluid loss of 500 to a 1000 ccper day with great increase in her comfort breathing. notablyshe never had an increased oxygen requirement even whentachypneic. we will do a dry weight before her discharge andsend her out on a dose of lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. with a dryweight to be followed at the skilled nursing facility. she willalso have a follow up appointment with dr. erin bahadue atoer healthcare . 2. infectious disease: on chest x-ray , the patient has apersistent right middle lobe process an on the second day of herhospitalization had increasing tachypnea , was found to be fluidoverloaded and was gently diuresed as mentioned earlier. becausea recurrence of her pneumonia cannot be ruled out , we willcomplete a 14-day course of levofloxacin and flagyl , which wasadded for the concern of aspiration to add anaerobic coverage.3. renal: the patient has chronic renal insufficiency. thepatient's creatinine has improved during her hospitalization andis currently 2.0. we have replaced her magnesium and put her ona small dose of daily k-dur 10 meq per day to compensate for herlasix diuresis.4. neuro: the patient was seen by the speech and swallowservice. their recommendations were mechanical , soft , solid dietwith thin liquids , out of bed at all meals.the patient will be discharged on flagyl to finish a 14-daycourse , levofloxacin to finish a 14-day course. the patient'slevofloxacin should be taken until 2/4/03 and the patient'sflagyl should be taken until 8/29/03 .  the patient will also bedischarged on the salicylic acid 81 mg , phoslo 667 mg t.i.d. ,lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. , heparin was given for prophylaxis as aninpatient , but she should be treated according to mvcmc policies ,lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d. , lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,multivitamin , simvastatin 20 mg q.h.s. , k-dur 10 meq x1 p.o.q.d. , and nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d.she will be discharged to the eh in good condition.thank you for the opportunity to care for this lovely patient.escription document: 1-4809030 emssten teldictated by: fratzke , koryattending: karagiannis , valentine rooseveltdictation id 5814479d: 3/23/03t: 3/23/03[report_end]