039691597 | agh | 16685394 | | 9740407 | 10/24/2005 12:00:00 am | non st elevation myocardial infartion | signed | dis | admission date: 7/6/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/24/2005attending: koneval , mauricio m.d.primary care physician: kelley vanvolkenburg , mdthis is an interim discharge summary dictation and there will bean addendum , which will include the discharge medications andfollow-up appointments.admitting diagnosis: non-st elevation mi.principal discharge diagnoses:1. non-st elevation mi , status post pci with drug eluding stentx3 to the svg to rt pda.2. acute renal failure , on chronic renal failure.3. anemia.4. insulin dependent diabetes.5. hyponatremia.history of present illness: this is a 61-year-old female with ahistory of significant coronary artery disease status postinferior mi in 1988 , and status post cabg , who presents with anon-st elevation mi. the patient has significant cardiac riskfactors including hypertension , hyperlipidemia , smoking , agegreater than 50 , and diabetes. the patient has a significanthistory of multiple vasculopathies with interventions onbilateral carotids , cabg , aortofemoral bypass , history of cva ,and likely renal artery stenosis. the patient presents with atwo-week history crescendo angina present at both resting andexertion and which occurred two times per week and resolved eachtime spontaneously without the requirement of nitroglycerine.the patient awoke on the morning of admission with a sharp leftprecordial pain , which progressed to substernal chest pressureradiating to the neck down her right arm and left arm and afeeling of left arm numbness. the patient did experiencesignificant nausea and vomiting and took multiple nitroglycerinswithout relief. she presented to daley oer's memorial hospital emergencyroom , was noted to have st depressions in the inferolateral leadsas well as t-wave inversions in her lateral leads. troponin atthat time was 14. the patient was admitted for non-st elevationmi management and probable cardiac catheterization.past medical history:1. notable for coronary artery disease status post imi in 1988 ,treated with tpa , cabg in 1999.2. hypertension.3. insulin dependent diabetes times greater than 20 years.4. carotid stenosis status post bilateral carotidendarterectomies.5. hyperlipidemia.6. status post aortobifemoral bypass in 1999.7. status post cerebellar cva in 2004.8. chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine to2.5.9. diastolic dysfunction , heart failure.10. depression.current medications:1. aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.2. lasix 40 mg p.o. daily.3. plavix 75 mg p.o. daily.4. lisinopril 20 mg p.o. daily.5. toprol-xl 25 mg p.o. daily.6. hydralazine 25 mg p.o. t.i.d.7. glyburide 10 mg p.o. b.i.d.8. lantus 18 units q.h.s.9. isordil 10 mg p.o. b.i.d.10. nitroglycerin sublingual p.r.n. for chest pain.allergies:1. angiotensin receptor blockers , which cause hives.2. adhesive tape , which cause pleuritis.social history: the patient is a retired beautician. she has a45-year history of prior smoking and currently continues to smokeoccasionally. at a high , she smoked three packs per day. deniesalcohol use. no recreational drug use. the patient currentlylives alone.family history: significant for mother , who died at age 61 ofpyelonephritis and myocardial infarction. father died at age 52of brain tumor. she has two siblings with no heart disease.review of systems: otherwise negative other than mentioned inhpi.physical examination: upon admission , temp 97 , pulse 78 ,respiratory rate 16 , blood pressure 144/52 , and pulse oxymetry99% on room air. general , this is a pleasant elderly female inno acute distress , slightly slurred speech. heent , normocephalicand atraumatic. extraocular motions are intact. neck is supple.no lymphadenopathy , no thyroid enlargement , bilateral carotidbruits palpable. cardiovascular , distant heart sounds , regularrate and rhythm , a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur heard at the leftsternal base. no rubs or gallops. crackles heavily at the chestwall , no wheezes. abdomen is soft , nontender , and nondistended.bowel sounds are present. extremities , no clubbing or cyanosis.pedal pulses , 1+ , left greater than right. neuro , cranial nervesii through xii intact. strength 5/5 diffusely , light touchintact throughout , no dysmetria , mild difficulty with alternatingmovements , and negative pronator drift.laboratory data: labs upon admission included ??__?? creatinineof 3.1 , otherwise the electrolytes within normal limits , sodium129 , and glucose 132. lfts were within normal limits. hemogramshowed a mildly depressed hematocrit of 32 , troponin elevated at14.4 , ck 364 , and ckmb 28.3. ekg upon admission showed normalsinus rhythm at 83 , normal axis , st depressions noted in leads iiv5 , and v6. no st elevations. q waves in iii and f. t waveinversions noted in i through iii , f , v6 , poor r-waveprogression.assessment and plan: this is a 61-year-old female with a historyof multiple vasculopathies , who presented with a non-st elevationmi. the patient was noted to have markedly elevated troponin andprogressive t-wave inversions laterally.1. cardiovascular ischemia , following admission , the patient wasinitiated on aspirin , plavix , nitroglycerin drip , oxygen p.r.n. ,and the beta-blocker was titrated up as tolerated. ace inhibitoras well as hydralazine were held. over the first night ofadmission , the patient noted increasing chest discomfort. thenitroglycerin was titrated up. ekg showed continued t waveinversions laterally as well as marked increase in troponin up toan elevation of 105. cardiac fellow was contacted and thepatient was titrated up further on her nitroglycerin to a max of200. the patient did not have chest pain on the night ofadmission , however was noted to have ekg changes and elevatedtroponin as mentioned. on the morning following admission , on11/8/05 , the patient was noted to have new onset of chestdiscomfort and at that time was noted to have st elevations inher inferior leads iii and f as well as v6 and l. at that time ,due to the continued chest discomfort and new st elevation , thepatient was taken to the cath lab , at which time , she underwent acardiac catheterization and was noted to have a three-vesseldisease status post cabg. she was noted to have 90% of occlusionof the svg graft to rtpda status post pda. these lesions wereintervened upon with drug eluding stents x 3. following thecatheterization , the patient was continued on her medicalmanagement. she remained chest pain free and the nitroglycerindrip was discontinued. following the cath , the patient'stroponins trended down and she had mild st elevations thatpersisted inferiorly but were diminished prior to discharge.preventive measures including nutrition and smoking sensationwere obtained. the patient appears reluctant to quit smoking.cardiovascular pump , the patient has a history of hypertension ,which was well controlled throughout her hospitalization.isordil and hydralazine were initially held on admission while onthe nitroglycerin drip. the ace inhibitor was held secondary toacute renal insufficiency. therefore , the beta-blocker wastitrated up. upon discharge , the patient may reinitiate onlow-dose hydralazine and isordil as well as reinitiation of theace as tolerated with renal function. in addition , the patienthas a history of diastolic dysfunction , which is likely due toher history of hypertension. an echocardiogram from october 2005during a prior admission for heat failure showed an ef of 60% , aswell as inferior apical hypokinesis , mild elevated lvedp. thepatient appeared mildly hypervolemic during her hospitalizationbut did not show any signs of acute congestive heart failure.initially diuresis was held secondary to acute renalinsufficiency. however , she received lasix 40 mg iv x1 on2/16/05 due to abdominal discomfort and distention due to mildvolume overload. cardiovascular rhythm , the patient wascontinued on telemetry throughout her hospitalization. she hasno history of arrhythmias and no events were noted on hertelemetry. she obtained ekgs , which showed no significant changeor nodal blockage.2. endocrine , the patient has a history of insulin-dependentdiabetes , which was moderately well controlled throughout herhospitalization. she has a history of hemoglobin a1c of 7.3 asof february 2005. upon admission , glyburide was held and thepatient was continued on lantus as well as a sliding scale ofregular insulin. she obtained fingers sticks a.c. and h.s.glipizide was initiated on 2/16/05 and will be titrated up astolerated as an outpatient.3. respiratory , this system was stable throughout admission.the patient had crackles on exam , but no significant pulmonaryedema on chest x-ray. abdominal ct on 7/16/05 was notable formoderate right and trace left pleural effusions. the patientmaintained excellent pulse oximetry on room air without anyrespiratory compromise.4. renal , upon admission , the patient was noted to have acuterenal insufficiency with a creatinine of 3.2. the patient has ahistory of chronic renal insufficiency secondary to hypertensivenephropathy , diabetic nephropathy , and likely renal arterystenosis. prior renal ultrasound showed an atrophic left kidneywith mild decrease in perfusion. following admission , thepatient was initiated on d5w with 3 ampules of bicarb as well asmucomyst in preparation for likely cardiac catheterization. shewas continued on iv fluids following the catheterization.despite these preventive measures , the patient had a markedincrease in her creatinine following cardiac cath with a highcreatinine of 5 on 7/20/05 . renal consult was obtained andadvised continued treatment. a urine sediment was obtained whichwas consistent with atn. an abdominal ct showed evidence againof an atrophic left kidney. creatinine was noted to begin todecrease on 7/16/05 and was 4.2 the day before discharge. thepatient will follow up with dr. lamantia in nephrology within threemonths' time.5. gi , the patient was noted to have right upper quadrantabdominal pain on 7/20/05 . she had had mild elevations in herlfts , most notably an alk phos of 293. however , these valuesstabilized throughout the remainder of the hospitalization. anabdominal ct was obtained without contrast that showed no sign ofobstruction , hepatobiliary disease , but was notable for a ventralhernia that was not strangulated or incarcerated. the patientcontinued to pass and had regular bowel movements. she wascontinued on bowel regimen. the pain was thought to be likelysecondary to ventral hernia with increased volume status.therefore , she was given a mild diuresis to decrease volumeoverload.6. id was stable.7. heme , the patient was noted to have a hematocrit drop priorto cath. she dropped from 32 to 26. she was transfused twounits of packed red blood cells prior to catheterization in orderto keep the hematocrit greater than 30. there was no acutesource of blood loss noted. guaiac stools were negative. thereis likely a component of anemia of chronic disease secondary tochronic renal insufficiency. the patient's hematocrit continuedto trend down and on 7/16/05 , an abdominal ct was obtained torule out retroperitoneal bleed , which was negative. the patientwas transfused one unit of packed red blood cells on 7/16/05 .she will likely require a further anemia workup as an outpatient.8. fen , the patient was not given any electrolyte scalessecondary to her acute renal insufficiency. she was noted tohave hyponatremia with a lowest of 123 and was therefore placedon free water 1.5-liter restriction with adequate resolution.the patient was also placed on a less than 2-gm salt restrictionto decrease volume overload. she was noted to have an increasedphosphorous level and was started on phoslo. she had elevatedpotassiums , but this did not exceed 5. the patient was continuedon a cardiac/renal 1800 ada diet. prophylaxis included scd andpneumoboots in the setting of anemia. she was continued on aproton pump inhibitor.code: the patient is dnr/dni.disposition: upon discharge , the patient was in stable conditionand will be discharged home without service. she was able toambulate without chest pain or shortness of breath toleratingp.o. intake well. she will have follow-up as noted in theaddendum. the patient was instructed not to smoke and to takedaily weights and if she gained more than 2 pounds per day or 5pounds in a week , she was instructed to call her doctor. sheshould seek medical attention for worsening shortness of breath ,chest pain , weight gain , dizziness , worsening abdominal pain , orany other concerns.plan:1. follow up with dr. chesebro , monitor for continued decrease increatinine. consider reinitiating the ace inhibitor withresolution of acute renal insufficiency. titrate thebeta-blocker and restart nitrates as tolerated. titrate upglipizide as needed. consider further anemia workup. encouragesmoking sensation. continue to monitor abdominal pain/lfts andconsider further evaluation of ventral hernia. check lfts withrecent addition of lipitor.2. follow up with dr. burkle post mi management.3. follow up with dr. bottrell for management of chronic renalinsufficiency.escription document: 3-4867035 cssten teldictated by: meranto , johnieattending: ricotta , johnathandictation id 9210960d: 2/16/05t: 2/16/05