715104087 | gah | 59562830 | | 604523 | 6/29/1997 12:00:00 am | breast carcinoma | signed | dis | admission date: 10/14/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/16/1997principal diagnosis: cellulitis.chief complaint: ms. fennessy is a 47-year-old woman with stage ibreast cancer admitted for spontaneous cellulitisof the left breast.history of present illness: the patient presented last year withleft breast mass approximately 4 cm ,moderately aggressive histology , but was node negative and erprnegative. the cancer was continued t-2 , n-0 , m-0 and was treatedwith lumpectomy , xrt , and four cycles of caf ending 11/27 .  shesuffered significant skin breakdown from the radiation therapy butimproved by 11/16 .  she represented in 6/20 with two areas oferythema with underlying lumps in the outer margin of her leftbreast. at the time , it had the appearance of inflammatory breastcancer , but a biopsy turned out to be negative for cancer. she wastreated with three days of nafcillin intravenously in the hospital ,starting in 7/19 and has been on oral dicloxacillin since then , sothat she could take antibiotics at home. her skin changes havewaxed and waned since then so that some physicians involved in hercare felt there was improvement in her clinical condition , althoughthe patient subjectively felt there was none.more recently , the patient's breast has swollen considerably andthe overlying skin has become erythematous and the erythema hasspread to involve the entire breast and around to the back. shedenies any fevers or chills , but she feels generally ill which hadnever been an issue for her. she also reported new left-sidedchest wall discomfort.past medical history: ( 1 ) left breast cancer as above; ( 2 ) type iidiabetes mellitus for 1-2 years , currentlywell controlled with diet and exercise. the patient takes herblood sugars frequently and states that her sugars are usuallyround 100. ( 3 ) hypothyroidism diagnosed two years ago; ( 4 ) low backpain secondary to a motor vehicle accident around a year ago , notcurrently an active issue; ( 5 ) congenital partial left upper limb;( 6 ) depression related to her cancer.medications: dicloxacillin 500 mg q.i.d.; synthroid 150 mcg q.d.;paxil 40 mg p.o. q.d.allergies: no known drug allergies.social history: the patient lives by herself with no significantfamily to support or close friends since herbreast cancer diagnosis. she is a former private chef but lost herjob secondary to her cancer and spent all of her savings on medicalcost , because she had no insurance. now the patient is no medicareand disability which is presently her only source of income. nohistory of alcohol or tobacco use or abuse.family history: one great aunt on her maternal side with breastcancer.review of systems: significant only for very unusually heavymenstrual periods since her chemotherapy ,bleeding often for 10-14 days.physical examination: vital signs - temp 97.8 , heart rate 88 andregular , bp 118/92 , oxygen saturation 97% onroom air. general - the patient is a pleasant woman lying in noacute distress. heent - oropharynx unremarkable. neck - jvp atsternal angle , no lymphadenopathy , no thyromegaly. chest - lungsclear to auscultation and percussion except for coarse inspiratorybreath sounds over her left scapula. heart - normal heart sounds ,regular rate and rhythm , with no murmurs or rubs. abdomen - normalbowel sounds. the patient had a scar in her left upper quadrantfrom an old excisional biopsy. breasts - diffuse erythema andslight peau d'orange appearance over the entire left breast withslight erythema over the left nipple , with no nipple discharge. nomasses or axillary lymph nodes appreciated. extremities -congenital left partial upper extremity with upper extremitymissing below mid upper arm.hospital course: the patient was placed on vancomycin andcefotaxime. there was concern that the skinchanges may have been due to prior radiation , especially given itsdistribution in the back. however , the radiation/oncology servicesaw and followed ms. deluccia over the course of this admission andfelt very strongly that the changes were not consistent with priorradiation therapy. further workup consisted of a bone scan whichwas negative , a chest cat scan which revealed only thick skin onthe left breast , no adenopathy , and minimal lung fibrosis. of noteis that the patient had no fever or elevated white count over thecourse of this admission. the patient had an ultrasound of herleft breast performed prior to her discharge , which revealed asmall fluid collection in the lateral margin of her left breast.serosanguineous fluid was aspirated from the collection and gramstain of the fluid revealed no polys and no organisms. culture ofthe fluid showed no growth on discharge.prior to her discharge , a large iv line was placed in order tocontinue iv antibiotics at home.discharge medications: ( 1 ) ancef 1 gm iv q.8h. x14 days;( 2 ) synthroid 115 mcg p.o. q.a.m.; ( 3 ) paxil40 mg p.o. q.a.m.discharge disposition: to home.condition on discharge: stable.dictated by: chi specchio , m.d. ir17attending: lupe j. goolesby , m.d. lh43  il870/5424batch: 95498 index no. ezaisf9ukr d: 3/4/97t: 6/10/97