433412068 | jmco | 11613643 | | 106085 | 6/29/1997 12:00:00 am | cellulitis right foot | signed | dis | admission date: 10/14/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/17/1997principal diagnosis: peripheral vascular disease.procedures: 1. third and fifth toe amputation with wounddebridement.2. lower extremity angiogram.3. right transmetatarsal amputation.history of present illness: the patient is a 45 year oldgentleman with a history of severeperipheral vascular disease who is status post aorto-bifemoral andbilateral femoral-popliteal bypass grafting , who originallypresented in august of this year with an ischemic right foot andgangrenous right great toe and fourth toe. arteriogram revealed apopliteal stenosis below his bypass with very poor runoff. thepopliteal artery was angioplastied with good results andrestoration of palpable anterior tibial pulses at the mid calf.the patient only had moderate perfusion of the right foot , however ,and presented in august of this year for wound debridement andfourth toe amputation. the patient re-presents with a poorlyhealing fourth toe amputation site and wound cellulitis.past medical history: he has poorly controlled insulin dependentdiabetes. he is status post myocardialinfarction in 1993 , 1996 and 1997. he has severe peripheralvascular disease. he is status post bilateral femoral-poplitealand bypass graft. he is status post aorto-bifemoral. he has ahistory of coronary artery disease. he is status post coronaryartery bypass graft x three vessel. he has a history of congestiveheart failure , history of osteoarthritis.medications: digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.day , lasix 120 mg p.o.b.i.d. , zestril 50 mg p.o. q.day , aspirin 325 mg p.o.q.day , insulin nph 10 units q.a.m. , q.p.m. and insulin regularsliding scale.allergies: no known drug allergies.physical examination: patient is afebrile. temperature was 98.2 ,blood pressure 100/80 , pulse 85 ,respirations 16. he had saturation of 98% on room air. ingeneral , he is a white male in no acute distress. heent wasnormocephalic , atraumatic. pupils were equally reactive to lightand accommodation. extraocular muscles were intact. sclerae wereanicteric. there was no lymphadenopathy. lungs were clear toauscultation. cardiac exam was regular rate and rhythm. abdomenwas soft , nontender , nondistended , with normal active bowel sounds.neurologic exam was nonfocal. extremities were without clubbing ,cyanosis or edema. on vascular exam , patient had 3+ bilateralfemoral pulses , 2+ bilateral popliteal pulses. he had biphasicdopplerable bilateral posterior tibial pulses and a monophasicdopplerable right dorsalis pedis pulse and no dopplerable leftdorsalis pedis pulse. his right great toe had a black eschar onthe tip. his fourth toe amputation site was with purulentdrainage. his third toe was erythematous and tender to palpation.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the vascular servicefor wound debridement and iv antibiotics. he wasinitially evaluated by the cardiology service and endocrineservice. patient was cleared by cardiology for the procedure andwas considered well managed medically in regard to his coronaryartery disease. in regard to patient's diabetes , he was initiallyextremely brittle and requiring extensive fine tuning by theendocrine service who , at the time of discharge , had his bloodsugars repeatedly under 200 , with easily achieved insulin regimen.the patient was taken to the operating room initially on the 13 of june ofapril where he underwent a right third and fifth toe amputationwith wound debridement. at the time of operation , purulentdrainage with necrotic regions of the bases of the third and fifthtoes were found. the wound was left open with packing , withfurther plans for more formal tma after adequate drainage of thefoot. the patient , from the beginning of the hospital course , wasstarted on iv vancomycin , levofloxacin and flagyl which hecontinued throughout his hospital course. the patient toleratedthis initial wound debridement and toe amputation without incident.please see dictated operative report for further details. thepatient underwent an arteriogram on the 30 of august of april whichrevealed one vessel runoff via peroneal artery to an irregularappearing posterior tibial artery. the tibial peroneal trunk andthe proximal peroneal artery were found to have high gradestenoses. there were numerous collateral vessels to a dorsalispedis artery at the level of the ankle. based on this arteriogramresult and his wound , patient was preop'd for a transmetatarsalamputation on the 2 of june of april . it was recommended by thevascular staff that transmetatarsal amputation was the only optionfor proximal limb salvage. he was not found to have anyappropriate anatomy for further reconstruction from an arterialstandpoint. the patient was taken to the operating room on the2 of june of april where he underwent a formal right transmetatarsalamputation. the patient's wound was debrided back to the viabletissue and was closed in a primary fashion. please see dictatedoperative report for further details. patient tolerated theprocedure well without complications and was transported back tothe pacu and the floor in stable condition. postoperatively , thepatient has required wound packing to a small portion of the woundwhich was left open for drainage. initially , the wound waserythematous with minimal to moderate drainage. at the time ofdischarge , the wound has become far less erythematous , far lesspainful and without any drainage. it is thought at this time thatpatient now had three weeks of iv antibiotics and is stable enoughto go home on a p.o. regimen. patient will be discharged on p.o.levofloxacin and clindamycin with b.i.d. wound packing by vnaservice. patient is discharged to home in stable condition withfollowup to be early this week with dr. deandrade . patient is alsorecommended to call his cardiologist for appointment in 1-2 weeksand his primary care physician in 1-2 weeks as well.discharge medications: tylenol , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.day ,colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , lasix 120 mgp.o. b.i.d. , nph insulin 14 units q.a.m. and 14 units q.p.m. , cziregular insulin sliding scale before each meal , zestril 50 mg p.o.q.day , niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , percocet 1-2 tabs p.o. q.3-4h.p.r.n. pain , levofloxacin 250 mg p.o. q.day , clindamycin 300 mgp.o. q.i.d. , aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.dictated by: hiram sumbry , m.d. jq52attending: wade ketchersid , m.d. no77  ou291/4221batch: 43761 index no. h3upl29bma d: 5/28/97t: 1/4/97