615731650 | rnamc | 09399642 | | 5992963 | 1/16/2005 12:00:00 am | line infection | signed | dis | admission date: 11/1/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/21/2005attending: jeudy , rex mdchief complaint: fevers , pain over her hickman catheter.history of present illness: this is a 41-year-old female with ahistory of an aplastic anemia since age of 12 , diabetes mellitus ,avascular necrosis of bilateral hips and shoulders status postreplacements and multiple previous sinus infections , who presentswith one day of fever and pain around her hickman site. thepatient was in her usual state of health the week of admission ,but on the friday prior to admission , she felt sick and was inbed all day. she noticed worsening back and knee pain. that hadbeen present since july when she was in a motor vehicleaccident. she also felt warm to the temperature and noticedherself to be febrile to 101 degrees. the morning of admission ,she had worsening pain and induration around her hickman site andcalled her physician who told her to come to the emergencydepartment. on review of systems , she denied cough , sputumproduction , nasal congestion , headache , chest pain , shortness ofbreath , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , rashes ,dysuria , increased urinary frequency or urgency.past medical history: her past medical history is notable forinsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , hepatitis c positivity ,aplastic anemia , transfusion dependent , acute 2 weeks , chronickidney disease , avascular necrosis of the hips bilaterally ,status post bilateral total hip replacements , hepatitis bsecondary hemachromatosis and hypothyroidism and she has anallergy to acetaminophen.medications: her medications include , nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d. ,lantus 25 units q.h.s. , thiamine 100 mg p.o. q.d. , humalogsliding scale , folic acid 1 mg q.d. , ambien 10 mg p.o. q.h.s. ,levothyroxine 75 mg p.o. q.d. , lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d. ,methadone 40 mg p.o. t.i.d. , oxycodone 98 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n.pain , quinine 260 mg q.h.s. , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o.q.h.s. , zoloft 100 mg p.o. q.d. , and compazine p.r.n. nausea.social history: she lives at home with her daughter. she doesnot drink alcohol. she does not smoke tobacco.family history: her family history is noncontributory. in theemergency department , blood cultures were drawn from her hickmanline and peripherally plain films were obtained of the left kneeand the lumbar spine and she received a single dose ofvancomycin , levofloxacin and flagyl intravenously.admission examination: her temperature was 97.8. her heart ratewas 80. her blood pressure was 102/68. her respiratory rate was16. she was satting 100% on room air. generally , she was awakeand alert. heent: mucous membranes were moist. oropharynx wasclear , pupils equal , round and reactive to light. her pupilswere pinpoint. cardiovascular: jvp was at 7 cm of water ,carotid upstrokes were brisk. her cardiovascular exam wasregular rate and rhythm , s1 , s2 , no rubs , murmurs or gallops.pulmonary: lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally.abdomen: her abdomen was soft , nontender , and nondistended. nohepatosplenomegaly , negative murphy's sign and she had normalactive bowel sounds. extremities were warm and well perfused.she had 1+ edema bilaterally in the lower extremities. she hadleft medial knee tenderness but no effusion , full range ofmotion. her neurologic exam was nonfocal.laboratory data: her laboratory evaluation was notable for aglucose of 49. her complete blood count was notable for a whiteblood count of 1.7 with an absolute neutrophil count of 735. herhematocrit was 26. her platelet count was 7. plain filmsobtained of the left knee showed a stable pattern sclerosis inthe distal femur with an effusion. plain films of the l-spineshowed no fracture or other pathology.hospital course by system: her blood cultures.1. id , her blood cultures grew out coag-negative staphylococcus.her hickman line was pulled and thought to be the source ofinfection. she was started on vancomycin intravenously tocomplete a 2-week course of vancomycin.2. musculoskeletal , the patient had has chronic hip and kneepain secondary to avascular necrosis and also from her mva thatshe experienced , which likely exacerbated the pain. thepatient's pain seemed to be out of control throughout theadmission. anesthesia was consulted and the patient was treatedwith a fentanyl pca. she was also continued on her home dose ofmethadone 40 t.i.d. with oxycodone for breakthrough. toward theend of the admission , the patient was thought to be somnolent ,perhaps over sedated from narcotics. her medication regimen wastitrated back down to her home regimen versus the methadone 40 mgp.o. t.i.d. and her oxycodone was titrated down to 60 mg q.8h p.r.n. , breakthrough pain.3. heme , the patient has a history of aplastic anemia. she wastransfused blood for hematocrit less than 25. furthermore upperextremity noninvasive vascular studies were obtained to rule outsubclavian clot associated with her prior hickman and that studywas negative. the decision was made to transfuse platelets onlyif the patient was actively bleeding , which she was not.4. endocrine: throughout the patient's admission , her bloodsugars were somewhat difficult to control having episodes of bothhyper and hypoglycemia. the patient was discharged on thefollowing regimen nph 34 units in the morning with humalogsliding scale with the plan for her to follow up with her primaryphysician in office to further adjust her insulin scale. she wascontinued on her synthroid at 75 mg q.d. for hypothyroidism , thiswas not initially during this admission.5. cardiovascular system: the patient has a history ofhypertension. she was continued on her lisinopril 20 mg q.d. ,and hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg q.d.6. prophylaxis: the patient had pneumoboots for dvtprophylaxis.7. fen: the patient was had her nutrition supplemented withmultivitamin , thiamine and folate.8. gi: the patient was on gi prophylaxis with nexium and wasgiven colace as a stool softener versus her narcotics.9. the patient was full code during this admission.disposition: the patient was discharged with the diagnosis ofneutropenia and hickman line infection. she was completed acourse of intravenous vancomycin for coag-negative staphylococcusbacteremia , which ended on 6/5/05 . prior to her discharge , shehad a tunneled catheter placed by general surgery , procedure ,which she tolerated well. please see separate operative report.the patient was instructed to follow up with dr. biagioni in hisoffice. the patient was continued on methadone 40 mg p.o. t.i.d.for pain with oxycodone 60 mg q.6h , as needed for breakthroughpain.discharge medications: colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , nexium 40 mgp.o. q.d. , thiamine 100 mg p.o. q.d. , folic acid 1 mg p.o. q.d. ,levoxyl 75 mg p.o. q.d. , lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d. , methadone 40mg p.o. t.i.d. , quinine 260 mg q.h.s. , zoloft 100 mg p.o. q.d. ,hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. q.d. , baclofen 10 mg t.i.d. ,novolog sliding scale , nph 35 units q.a.m. , vancomycin 1 gramq.d. to be continued until 11/19/06 .diet on discharge: american diabetic association diet.activity on discharge: as tolerated.condition on discharge: stable , improved from admission.escription document: 3-3187475 hffocusdictated by: kampmann , lorenattending: schwiesow , jeffdictation id 2136430d: 8/20/07t: 8/20/07