record #805535781245183 | ah | 38586575 | | 059953 | 5/4/1998 12:00:00 am | degenerative joint disease rt. knee | signed | dis | admission date: 8/4/1998 report status: signeddischarge date: 7/28/1998diagnosis: end-stage osteoarthritis , right knee.history of present illness: ms. denault is a 75-year-old woman whowas scheduled for a right total kneereplacement for end-stage osteoarthritis. the patient has had along-standing history of progressive knee pain , which has becomedisabling over the last six months. the patient has two units ofautologous blood available for this procedure.past medical history: significant for osteoarthritis , borderlinediabetes mellitus , glucose-6-phosphatedehydrogenase deficiency , and glaucoma.past surgical history: significant for cesarean section timesthree. she is also status post dentalextractions.allergies: glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency anderythromycin.admission medications: timoptic-xe one q.h. and q.a.m. in eacheye , indocin 25 mg p.o. p.r.n. , and tylenolp.r.n.social history: the patient denies smoking currently. she quit25 years ago. she reports drinking alcoholoccasionally. she is on an american diabetic association 1 , 300calorie low sodium diet. the patient is a widow who resides inlina rd. , po racoreview of systems: significant for glasses , history of glaucoma ,and early cataracts. she has full dentures onuppers and partial dentures on the bottom. she is deaf in theright ear. there are no pulmonary problems. cardiovascular , thepatient denies coronary artery disease , hypertension , chest pain ,congestive heart failure , or deep venous thrombosis. the patienthas a history of borderline diabetes mellitus with baseline bloodsugars in the 140s.physical examination: her blood pressure was 140/80. she is 4'10"tall and 168 lb. in general , she ambulatedwith an antalgic gait on the right with a cane. she requiredassistance to get onto the examination table. head , eyes , ears ,nose , and throat were significant for pupils being equal andreactive to light with extraocular muscles intact , and normalpharynx. there was no evidence of carotid bruits. her lungs wereclear to auscultation bilaterally. her heart was regular in rateand rhythm with a normal s1 and s2. there was no murmur. herabdomen was protuberant , but nontender with no organomegaly. therewas a well healed midline incision consistent with cesareansection. there were no focal neurological deficits. examinationof her extremities revealed bilateral varus with the right greaterthan the left. active range of motion of the right knee was from a15 degree extension deficit to approximately 70 degrees. there waspalpable crepitus. she had positive medial and lateral joint linetenderness. the knee appeared stable to valgus and varus stresses.she had a palpable dorsalis pedis and posterior fullness with noevidence of ulceration. she was neurovascularly intact. shereceived 5 mg of coumadin preoperatively and was instructed todiscontinue use of indocin.hospital course: the patient was brought to the operating room on3/25/98 where she underwent a right total kneearthroplasty with a kinemax system. estimated blood loss was 300cc. the tourniquet time was 90 minutes. she receivedperioperative antibiotics and was continued on coumadin in thepostoperative period. her pain was well controlled with the use ofa pca pump provided by the anesthesiology department. herpostoperative course was , for the most part , uncomplicated. shedid have some low grade temperatures with a t max up to 101.8postoperatively. this seemed to be related mostly to atelectasis.her hematocrit was kept greater than 30 with the use of autologousblood transfusions. on postoperative day two , her white blood cellcount was 13.7 , but had decreased by postoperative day three to 12.her electrolytes were well controlled. she was made therapeutic oncoumadin by postoperative day two with a pt of 16.4 and an inr of2.0. she worked with the physical therapy department along thetotal knee arthroplasty pathway. her skin dressings were takendown and the wound was noted to be clean , dry , and intact with noevidence of erythema or discharge. the patient was felt to bedoing well , although a little bit slow in terms of her physicaltherapy. it was felt that she would benefit from a short stay at arehabilitation hospital and a consult was placed with the maldharp drugties bamayhost memorial hospital .  the patient was discharged to tion pidesf medical center pending bedavailability on 5/29/98 .discharge medications: colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , iron sulfate 300mg p.o. t.i.d. times a total of five days ,folate 1 mg p.o. q.day , insulin regular ( human ) sliding scale subcuq.i.d. , multivitamin one tab p.o. q.day , timoptic 0.25% one dropeach eye q.a.m. , coumadin to keep pt/inr between 1.5 and 2.0 ,tylenol 650-1 , 000 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. , tylenol no. 3 one to twotabs p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain , and benadryl 25-50 mg p.o. q.h.s.p.r.n. for sleep.disposition: the patient is discharged to a rehabilitation hospital.discharge instructions: she is instructed to continue physicaltherapy for increased range of motion ofher right knee. she is further instructed to continue takingcoumadin for a total of six weeks. she is instructed to follow upwith dr. danilo mincks as an outpatient in five weeks , to call hisoffice for an appointment.dictated by: dion torgrimson , m.d. nl073attending: jamel sarkar , m.d. ch.b rw45  ok338/2609batch: 1631 index no. w7yqfscdn d: 5/29/98t: 5/29/98[report_end]