254898266 | pmc | 12449439 | | 4505057 | 9/7/2003 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: report status: signeddischarge date: 9/22/2003date of discharge: 9/22/2003attending: sydney velovic mdservice: chief surgery.history of present illness: the patient is a 72-year-old malewho presented to his primary care doctor in early september withdysphagia and acolasia and epigastric pain. he had an upperendoscopy which showed an ulcer in the distal esophagus andproximal stomach. he had a repeat egd and biopsies of the ulcerwhich showed adenocarcinoma of the proximal stomach and distalesophagus. metastatic workup showed only thickening at the gejunction and one enlarged lymph node in the periportal region 3.4x 1.6 cm. the patient was referred to dr. dunks for resectionand was planned for an esophagectomy.past medical history: past medical history includeshypertension , ischemic cardiomyopathy , noninsulin dependentdiabetes , kidney stones , status post laser lithotripsy , historyof hyponatremia , myocardial infarction six years ago ,hypercholesterolemia , and an infrarenal abdominal aorticaneurysm.home medications: prevacid 30 mg b.i.d. , zocor 10 mg q.day ,toprol-xl 50 mg q.day , glyburide 2.5 mg q.day , zestril 5 mgq.day , aspirin 325 mg q.day and coumadin alternating 5 and 2.5 mgp.o. q.d.allergies: no known drug allergies.hospital course: the patient came into the hospital , afteradmission was taken to the operating room on 9/5/03 . in theoperating room he underwent exploratory laparotomy biopsy of aportacaval lymph node. uterolithotomy on the right side , liverbiopsy , cystoscopy , placement of double j ureteral stent on theright side and open nephrolithotomy. the large right ureteralstone was found upon exploration and urology was called for anintraoperative consult. please see both dr. moriarity and dr.cushard dictated reports for more information. there was avery high amount of blood loss approximately 17 litersintraoperatively from venous plexus bleeding of the pelvis andkidney and the patient was closed after stomach mobilizationwithout resection of his tumor and admitted to the angeles vandie morepa surgicalintensive care unit. the patient was left intubated due to hislarge fluid and blood product replacement and surrounding facialedema. he was kept intubated , paralyzed and sedated , started onlopressor , put on a rule out mi protocol , kept npo with anng-tube. his electrolytes , cbc and coagulation labs werecorrected. the patient had multiple abdominal drains and waskept on triple antibiotics. over the next several days , thepatient was kept intubated and sedated. his chest x-raysrevealed some early ards and he continued to need blood productincluding red cell and platelet and ffp transfusions. heunderwent bronchoscopy in the intensive care unit and was slowlyweaned on his valve dilatory settings. over postop day 4 , 5 and6 the patient began to spike some fevers up to 102. he had beenweaned to pressure support ventilation and was beginning to autodiurese. he then started on tube feeds of small amounts whichwere increased as tolerated.over the next couple of days as the patient's sedation was weanedand he woke up more , it was noticed that he had decreasedmovement of his left lower extremity and upon examination andgiven his recurrent fevers , there was a question of an epiduralhematoma. he was scheduled for an mri to assess this. he wastolerating tube feeds well and these were increased and his labswere stabilizing. neurosurgery was consulted and it wasascertained that the patient did have an epidural hematoma ,therefore his epidural was removed and this was deemed likely tobe secondary to trauma from the epidural. it was decided thatthe patient would benefit from evacuation of epidural hematomaand the patient was made npo and taken back to the operating roomon 8/18/03 . he underwent a t5-t8 laminectomy with evacuation ofthe epidural hematoma. please see the dictated operative reportfor more information , but a handful of clot was removed from thearea. the patient was transferred back to or ox nor , intubated andstable having tolerated the procedure well.thereafter , the patient was more awake and alert and more quicklyweaned off his ventilatory support. his fingersticks were moredifficult to control and he was therefore started on theheartland protocol and was seen by the diabetes managementservice. the patient was extubated on 9/11/03 and was doing wellon a face mask on that day. his tube feeds were restarted andspeech and swallow was consulted to evaluate the patient. hebegan to be seen by physical therapy for his lower extremityweakness. the cardiology service was consulted on 8/18 and askedto optimize medical management of the patient's ischemiccardiomyopathy. they recommended discontinuing and titrating thepatient's lopressor. he had been somewhat tachycardic previouslyand this resolved shortly. speech and swallow saw the patientand initially cleared him for soft foods and thickened foods andthis was likely just due to endotracheal tube trauma. afteranother day or two they cleared him for all regular foodsincluding thin liquids without any restrictions.for the patient's epidural hematoma , he had been started onvancomycin and it was decided that he would get a total of athree week course of vancomycin. urology continued to followedthe patient and wanted at least one blake drain kept in place andthe foley catheter kept in place. the patient did have a ct scanon 10/19/03 which demonstrated no urine leak on the ct urogram.the patient continued to be seen by physical therapy every dayand was doing very well. it was very difficulty initially tonormalize him but by the time of discharge he was up walking withthe walker with physical therapy and doing quite well.infectious disease was consulted to confirm the three week courseof vancomycin was appropriate for the patient's epiduralhematoma , and they agreed and thought no other interventions ortreatment as needed at the time. the patient was transferred outof the intensive care unit on 10/19/03 .neuro: at this time he was getting increasingly more oriented.he had had some icu psychosis and confusion and he was taking nopain medication. he was stable from his neurosurgery procedureand neurosurgery was following him.pulmonary: his lungs were clear. he was now stable on room air.from a cardiovascular standpoint , he was stable and continued onhis low dose lopressor.gastroenterology: he was tolerating a house diet , eating smallamounts.gu: as stated , the urologist wanted to keep the foley catheterand keep one of the blake drains upon discharge.from a hematology standpoint , the patient had a stablehematocrit. from an infectious disease standpoint , the patientwas continued on iv vancomycin for three weeks. he had a piccline placed on 9/22/03 which was put in good position.from an endocrine standpoint , he was placed on glyburide ,continued to be followed by diabetes and also on a humalog scale.from an activity standpoint , he was seen by physical therapyevery day.over the ensuing few days he was begun on calorie counts to seehow much of the diet he was tolerating and he continued to workwith physical therapy. his glyburide and insulin doses weretweaked a little bit by the diabetes management service and hewas improving every day as was his mental status. he had beendischarged from the unit with a one-to-one sitter but this wasvery soon thereafter stopped on 10/21/03 . he was stable medicallyabout 3/11 or 2/4/03 for discharge and was ______ for arehabilitation facility appropriately. he was accepted to arehab facility near his home on 5/16/03 , dis university hospital and was readyto go.from a neurologic standpoint , he is awake and oriented x3 most ofhis time. his back limbs are stable. the staples have beenremoved by neurosurgery and he will follow up with dr. ochwatfrom neurosurgery in a couple of weeks. from a cardiovascularstandpoint , he has been restarted on all of his home medicationsand his blood pressure and heart rate had been stable on those.from a pulmonary standpoint , he currently has no issues and isbreathing well on room air. from a gi standpoint , he istolerating an ada diet with diabetic booster , ensure and has beeneating fairly well the last couple of days. from a gustandpoint , he is urinating sufficiently and he will keep hisfoley catheter and blake drain. from an endocrine standpoint , heis on glyburide twice a day and twice a day fingersticks withhumalog sliding scale. from an infectious disease standpoint , hehas a well functioning picc and has been fine and will begin onvancomycin for a total of three weeks. today , 5/16/03 is day 8 of21 of the vancomycin.physical examination on discharge: on physical exam , the patientis awake and oriented in no acute distress. his lungs are clearto auscultation bilaterally. his heart is regular , rate andrhythm , no murmurs , rubs or gallops. abdomen is soft , nontender ,nondistended with a well healing midline incision scar with somesteri-strips still in place. he has one blake drain in place onthe right side which is functioning well. his extremities haveno edema and his foley catheter is in place and working well.operations: operations are as indicated above on 9/5/03 and8/18/03 . please see above. complications are bleedingintraoperatively 9/5/03 , abortion of the indicated procedure on9/5/03 and an epidural hematoma requiring reoperation on8/18/03 .laboratories: laboratory results as of 7/22 sodium 141 ,potassium 4.2 , chloride 107 , bicarb 25 , bun 23 , creatinine 1.0 ,glucose 128 , calcium 8.5 , magnesium 1.8 , white blood count 11.0 ,hematocrit 36.4 , platelets 322.condition: stable.disposition: to rehab.medications on discharge: tylenol p.o. p.r.n. , benadryl p.o.p.r.n. , glyburide 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , heparin 5000 units sub q.b.i.d. - this may be discontinued when the patient is ambulatingindependently , humalog insulin sliding scale as written in thedischarge instructions b.i.d. , zestril 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,multivitamin with minerals 1 tab p.o. b.i.d. , vancomycin 1 gramiv via picc line q.12h for 13 more days , zocor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. ,toprol-xl 15 mg p.o. q.d. , prevacid 30 mg p.o. q.day , and anaspirin 325 mg p.o. q.day.to do: continue foley catheter and jp drain , work on physicaltherapy and work on nutrition. follow up is with dr. nish inapproximately two weeks , dr. hernadez from urology inapproximately two weeks and dr. darrin crist from generalsurgery in approximately two weeks.escription document: 1-8308503 dbssten telcc: hugh kats m.d.ston des nasacc: chauncey holtham mdvillecorddictated by: buggie , marcos ivoryattending: stalford , fosterdictation id 6573932d: 1/2/03t: 1/2/03