record date: 2092-03-21edvisit^62115644^lara, uriah^03/21/92^melendez, leahresident's history, physical examination, and evaluation reviewedby me and i concur.  in addition, i personally interviewed andexamined this patient.history of present illness:  this is a 59-year-old male withhistory of elevated cholesterol who presents for evaluation ofintermittent neck pain and arm discomfort over the course of thelast several weeks and now with substernal chest pain radiatingto the neck since 6 hours prior to admission.  the patient doesnot have any documented history of cad.  he has noted over thelast several weeks episodes of exertional right-sided neck achingand arm discomfort with arm numbness, which seems to occur withexertion and resolve with rest.  he has no noted over the lastweek, but on exertion, he has had episodes of bilateral neckaching discomfort with radiating achy into both of the arms.  hissymptoms generally resolve with rest.  today, approximately 6hours prior to presentation, he was driving when he had the onsetof bilateral neck and arm aching pain with substernal chestdiscomfort, shortness of breath, a sensation of palpitations andmild sweatiness.  he had no nausea and no vomiting.  his symptomspersisted over the course of last several hours, and he presentedto the emergency department for evaluation.  he denies any priorhistory of chest pain in the past.past medical history:  positive only for elevated cholesterol andquestionable history of pe in the past.  he did smoke in the pastand drinks occasionally.  he lives with his significant other.family history:  reviewed and is positive for early cad in hisfather.review of systems:  other systems are reviewed and otherwisenegative except per the hpi.medications:  only lipitor.allergies:  no medical allergies.physical examination:  temperature is 95.2, pulse 96,respirations 18, blood pressure 121/65, and the o2 saturation is94%.  the patient is awake, alert, middle age male who appearsmildly uncomfortable but in no respiratory distress, reclining onthe stretcher.  head examination is normocephalic, atraumatic. his pupils are equal and reactive to light.  his sclerae areanicteric.  his conjunctivae are pink and moist.  he has moistmucous membranes with no erythema.  his neck is supple andnontender.  the trachea is midline.  there is no adenopathy. there is no jvd.  he has full range of motion.  there is nosubcutaneous emphysema.  his lungs reveal mild tachypnea.  thereis no chest wall tenderness.  there is no accessory muscle use. he has bibasilar crackles in both lower lung fields.  there is nowheezing and equal breath sounds.  his cardiac examination istachycardic and regular at about 100 with a 4/6 systolic murmurheard prominently at the apex as well as at the right secondintercostal space.  there is no rub.  his pulses are normal.  hisabdomen is minimally obese but nondistended, soft, nontender, noguarding, no peritoneal signs.  there is no organomegaly and nopulsatile masses.  his skin is intact, warm, somewhat moist butnot diaphoretic.  there are no rashes.  extremities reveal nocyanosis, clubbing, or edema.  calves are soft and nontender withno palpable cords, full range of motion with normal strength andtone.  he is oriented x3.  cranial nerves are intact.  there isno motor or sensory deficit.emergency department course:  the patient had iv accessinitiated.  he was placed on a cardiac monitor.  ekg wasperformed.  he received 1 time sublingual nitroglycerin with adrop in his blood pressure to systolic in the high 70s.  a secondiv was placed.  right-sided ekg leads were performed, and thepatient received iv fluid bolus.  he had already receivedaspirin.  his white blood cell count is 8.4, hematocrit 41, andplatelets 175,000.  his electrolytes are within normal limits. his bun is 18, creatinine 0.9, and glucose 124.  his ck was 93. his troponin was less than assay.  his initial ekg showed normalsinus rhythm in the 80s with a normal axis, normal intervals. his pseudonormalization noted only in lead iii.  he hasapproximately 1.5 mm st depression with normal st segments in theanteroseptal leads with somewhat hyperacute appearing t waves. right-sided leads show some mild, less than 1-mm, st upwardsloping in v2 through v5.  he had a chest x-ray performed thatshowed a normal mediastinum and some mild fluffy alveolarinfiltrates in the bases but no obvious consolidation and nosignificant cephalization.  he had blood pressures checked inboth arms once his blood pressure improved after an iv fluidbolus and was noted to have a persistent 20 point difference insystolic blood pressures of 136/65 on the right and 111/65 on theleft.  when the patient was questioned about this, he states thathe has had that noted in his doctor's office in the past.  heunderwent ct scanning of the chest, which ruled out aorticdissection after discussion with the attending radiologist.  ashis blood pressure stabilized, he received iv lopressor andbecame pain free.  he did not require any further nitroglycerin. repeat ekg was performed showing resolution of the 0.5 mm stdepression in the anterior leads.  given the patient's cardiacrisk factor and his history, which is fairly worrisome for  not reviewed by attending physician with a diagnosis of chest pain, rule out new-onset angina.  hedoes remain pain free now and has maintained a stable bloodpressure after iv fluid bolus.  see the note for full details.critical care time was 45 minutes.______________________________melendez, leah m.d.d: 03/22/92t: 03/22/92dictated by: melendez, leahescription document:3-2120502 bffocus