record #943200910038846 | amc | 74786632 | | 601987 | 11/26/1996 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 4/14/1996 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/22/1996principal diagnosis: coronary artery disease.principal procedure: coronary artery bypass graft.history of present illness: the patient is a 51-year-old , morbidlyobese gentleman with multiple cardiacrisk factors transferred from sherm ilfami medical center afterpresenting there with a ventricular fibrillation arrest in thesetting of chest pain , having ruled in for a myocardial infarctionwith several subsequent vt/vf arrests. he has a history of insulindependent diabetes mellitus , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia ,and former tobacco use. he had multiple exercise tolerance testsin 1993 which were highly predictive of ischemia with significantekg changes and symptoms in the recovery phase. he was put onmaximal medications , and his most recent exercise tolerance test in0/7 was not as positive as previously , but still suggestive ofischemia. the patient relates increasing exertional chest pain forseveral months , and increasing antianginal medications required.he had witnessed syncope at work , 911 was called , and he was foundto be in vf and defibrillated into asystole , which then convertedto atrial fibrillation. he did not require intubation. he wastaken to wtazealt imedet medical hospital , admitted , and ruled in for amyocardial infarction. despite some short term memory loss relatedto the incident , he does recall having chest pain just prior tosyncope. on the night before transfer , he was resting comfortably ,sitting at the side of the bed for the first time when he went intovf on the monitor and loss consciousness. he was immediatelycardioverted to sinus rhythm and begun on lidocaine. he hadanother episode of vt two hours later which deteriorated into vf ,again requiring cardioversion sinus bradycardia. lidocaine wasincreased to 3 mg per hour and arrangements were made to transferto the aand an hospital .  on arrival , he denied chestpain.past medical history: notable for insulin-dependent diabetesmellitus , hypertension ,hypercholesterolemia , orthopedic problems including severe shoulderdislocations as a child with chronic shoulder osteoarthritis and arecent meniscal tear of the knee.admission medications: subcu insulin 70/30 50 q.a.m. , nph 50 mgq.p.m. , corgard , procardia xl , mevacor ,enteric coated aspirin , and tng p.r.n.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the cardiologyservice initially. he was seen incatheterization and found to have a complex lad stenosis that was60% in the mid and 70% in the distal lad , 40% proximal leftcircumflex , 70% complex stenosis in the om2 , and an occluded rca.his lv gram showed an ejection fraction of 40%-50% withanteroapical akinesis. he had no further chest pain or ectopy onthe tng , lidocaine , and beta blockers , and he was successfullydiuresed. given these findings , he was taken to the operating roomon 7/13/96 , at which time he had a coronary artery bypass graftwith a lima to the lad , and a saphenous vein graft to the om1 andto the pda. he came off bypass and required atrial pacing andrenal dopamine. however , postoperatively , on transfer to theintensive care unit , he did not require any further pacing.dopamine was weaned successfully to renal dose and then to off.the patient extubated without difficulty by postoperative day oneand he was started on lopressor and enteric coated aspirin. he hada high insulin requirement which , over the course of his stay , ranup to over 100 units total per day. he was transferred to thefloor by postoperative day one. because of his obesity , herequired a big boy bed and he was seen by physical therapy toimprove his mobilization. he was successfully weaned off oxygenand was ambulating by the time of discharge without any trouble.because of his history of vf/vt , he was planned for ep studies andthese were negative. the patient's stay , however , was prolonged byevidence of cellulitis , particularly of his right saphenous veingraft site. there was no breakdown or discharge , however , therewas erythema and warmth , which was treated with iv antibiotics( ultimately ancef iv ) and elevation. the patient's white countremained stable. he was never febrile. the redness was ultimatelydecreased by the time of discharge , and he was sent home on p.o.keflex.disposition: to home with services.discharge medications: albuterol inhaler two puffs four times aday , enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o.q.day , nph 65 units q.a.m. and 45 units q.p.m. subcu , mevacor 20 mgtwice a day , lopressor 25 mg three times a day , niferex 150 b.i.d. ,percocet one to two tablets p.o. q.3-4h. p.r.n. , colace 100 mg p.o.t.i.d. while on percocet , and keflex 500 mg p.o. q.i.d.follow-up: the patient will have follow up with dr. rich n mengsteab , primary medical doctor , for wound monitoringand management of his sugars. he will have follow up with dr.anton litteral of cardiology and with dr. joaquin weitman of cardiacsurgery.dictated by: jonas jankoff , m.d. hu21attending: jefferson h. alviso , m.d. th3  kh421/9188batch: 00675 index no. q1uaaj5j9o d: 9/13/96t: 6/17/96[report_end]