905676767 | skho | 02403890 | | 351905 | 10/15/1997 12:00:00 am | r/o tuberculosis | signed | dis | admission date: 10/15/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/25/1997principal diagnosis: hemoptysis.secondary diagnosis: schizoaffective disorder.history of present illness: the patient is a 45 year-old male whopresents to the wek bri medical center emergency department with low back pain and a five dayhistory of hemoptysis. the patient has an extensive psychiatrichistory and an apparent history of tuberculosis treated in 1987 forone year ( confirmation of this fact is not found at the presenttime ). the patient presents with a five day history of hemoptysis.the patient notes that he has had blood tinged sputum andoccasional bright red blood for the past five days totalling about1/8th of a cup a day. he denies any fevers , chills or other sputumproduction , but he notes a positive cough. he is homeless and wasexposed to cold and rain during the past week. he has had notuberculosis follow-up since 1988. the patient also haslong-standing lower back pain. he had a previous accident where hewas pinned between two cars at age 17. he has had pain in hislower lumbar spine and occasional sharp pain that radiates downboth legs. he notes no weakness in his lower extremities , noincontinence. this pain has increased substantially over the pasttwo months. the patient has noted an extensive psychiatrichistory , evidently followed by dr. ruedy at the acjames general medical center at the albriel health care services ( number 184-4108. ) thepatient was apparently diagnosed with paranoid schizoiddisorder vs. bipolar vs. schizophrenia.past medical history: 1 ) tuberculosis , status post treatmentpossibly for one year in 1987 , though noconfirmation of this has been found. 2 ) psychiatric disorder. 3 )status post cholecystectomy.medications on admission: 1 ) prolixin 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. 2 )depakote 500 mg p.o. q. am , 1 , 000 mgp.o. q.h.s. 3 ) cogentin 1 mg p.o. b.i.d.allergies: the patient had no known drug allergies.physical examination: vital signs: temperature 96.7 degrees ,heart rate 100 , blood pressure 130/80. headand neck examination revealed that the pupils were equal , round andreactive to light. extraocular movements were intact. there wasno scleral icterus. oropharynx was clear. neck was supple withoutany adenopathy , no jugular venous pressure was noted.cardiovascular examination was regular rate and rhythm with a twoout of six holosystolic murmur heard best at the apex , no s3 or s4.lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. abdomen was obese ,soft , non-tender , positive bowel sounds. extremities revealed noclubbing , cyanosis or edema noted. there were good peripheralpulses. on rectal examination , the patient had good tone and wasguaiac negative. neurologically , the patient was intact. onadmission , the patient received a chest x-ray which showed apossible ground glass infiltrate in the right medial segment of theupper lung field approximately 1 cm in size , otherwise clear lungfields.laboratory: the patient's laboratory examinations on admissionwere all within normal limits.hospital course: the patient was admitted for rule outtuberculosis and was subsequently kept in therespiratory isolation room and serial induced sputums were sent forculture and stain and noted to be negative for acid fastbacilli or other signs of tuberculosis. the patient was also noted to have nofurther signs of hemoptysis while he was in thehospital and therefore his history of hemoptysis has not beenverified. the patient was very cooperative while in the hospitaland showed no signs of being febrile or other signs of activeinfection. no other signs of pulmonaryinfection were identified that could account for hemoptysis.it also did not appear that the patient had any form of possible lungmalignancy because he did not report weight loss or other suggestive featuresto further work-up this up however , the patientreceived a spiral ct scan of his chest which showed no focalabnormalities and was notable for clear lung fields and no signs oftuberculosis. as this was the case , the patient was subsequentlydischarged home having been ruled out for tuberculosis. notablealso , his ppd was negative at 48 hours with a positive mumps andcandida anergy panel also suggestive of not having tuberculosis.the patient was evaluated by psychiatry while inhouse who was intouch with his primary psychiatrist. the patient was continued onhis medications and noted to be quite stable while he was in thehospital. he was deemed not medically able to make his owndecisions on admission and was therefore not allowed to leavewhen the patient tried to leave on the night of admission. he wasvery cooperative however over the course of his admission and wasfollowed by psychiatry who have arranged follow-up with him upondischarge. the patient was seen by social work who is activelyworking with him to establish a shelter or other place to stay upondischarge. the patient is amendable to this and anxious to receiveassistance. the patient was subsequently discharged on july , 1997 in good condition with the name and addresses of possibleplaces to stay and close follow-up with a social worker and hispsychiatrist.medications on discharge: 1 ) cogentin 0.1 mg p.o. b.i.d. 2 )depakote 100 mg p.o. q. am , 200 mg p.o.q.h.s. 3 ) prolixin. 4 ) tylenol p.r.n. back pain.dictated by: branden j. ansari , m.d. oo95attending: cornell kelly marolf , m.b. hv49  ft866/7521batch: 89581 index no. ihdvtk4b0n d: 11/5/97t: 8/8/97