record #975485349511931 | aah | 17125131 | | 3850198 | 7/17/2004 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 7/17/2004 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: dane mulford mdindication for surgery:coronary artery disease.history of presenting illness:the patient is a 55-year-old female with a past medical historyof hypertension and diabetes who presented to the ed with two-dayhistory of epigastric pain and chest pain radiating to her leftarm. the patient states that she had been having on and offchest pain since about 7/24 and had been diagnosed previouslywith gastritis. she presented to the circbo medical center in may andagain with complaints of chest pain and epigastric pain. at thattime , she was found to have extreme pda defect by mibi. she wasalso tested and thought to have h. pylori gastritis whichapparently was causing her chronic chest pain. on the day ofadmission , the patient began to have chest pain which was notrelieved by maalox. she described the pain as peristernalaccompanied by nausea and vomiting and some diaphoresis. it wasrelieved in the ed by two sublingual nitroglycerins. she hadnegative cardiac enzymes x 2 and was admitted for a workup.repeat stress mibi showed reversible la and circumflex defectsand an ef of 50%. cardiac cath revealed three-vessel disease andthe patient is now scheduled for cabg. the patient originallyspeaks creole; however , she can speak and understand english.preoperative cardiac status:the patient has a history of class iii angina that has not hadany recently accelerated angina , and there is history of classiii heart failure. she is in normal sinus rhythm right now.past medical history:hypertension , diabetes insulin dependent with history of obesitywith gastritis , neuropathy , and retinopathy secondary todiabetes , and received immunization as a child in lakepast surgical history:none found.family history:no family history of coronary artery disease.social history:emigrated from strutzki dipoquick waley dr , hobalt fordo ward , minnesota 16458 in 1993 , has full freedom , lives with twodaughters. the patient is an employed housekeeper at an outsidehospital.allergies:metformin caused gi intolerance.medications:lopressor 25 p.o. q.i.d. , captopril 6.25 p.o. t.i.d. , aspirin 650mg q.d. , lovenox 100 sq. b.i.d. , atorvastatin 800 mg p.o. q.d. ,nph 60 units q.a.m. and 20 units q.p.m. , and nexium 20 mg p.o.q.d.physical examination:the patient is 5 feet 1 inch tall , 89 kilos , temperature of 98degree fahrenheit , heart rate of 71 per minute , and bloodpressure left arm 112/68. heent: perrla. dentition is withoutevidence of any infection and no carotid bruits. chest: noincision. cardiovascular: regular rate and rhythm. pulses 2+in carotids , radials , and femorals bilaterally. dorsalis pedis1+ bilaterally , posterior tibial nonpalpable but dopplerable onthe left and 1+ on the right. allen's test of the left upperextremity was normal. pulse oximetry use right upper extremitywas normal. pulse oximetry use right slightly sluggish ; thepatient is right handed. respiratory: breath sounds clearbilaterally. abdomen: soft , no incisions , no masses noted.rectal: deferred for now. extremities: venous striatusdiscoloration bilateral lower extremities. neuro: alert andoriented. no focal deficits , 98% on room air.labs on admission:sodium of 136 , potassium of 4.3 , chloride of 101 , bicarb ??___??repeat inr , echocardiogram showed an ef of 36% with mild mitral??___?? st elevation ??____?? moderate lv function was noted.hospital course:??___?? within normal limits so vascular causes of pain in theright lower extremity was ruled out and they recommended legelevation as part of the treatment so orthopedics was consultedto delineate the reason for the excruciating right lowerextremity pain which is still pending.cardiovascular: she is on lopressor and captopril , and thepatient apparently had an inferior wall mi postop. reason seemsto be poor targets , cpk and mbs were cycled continuously forthree more days in the icu. the mbs finally started trendingdown on day #3 with a peak of 140. the cpks started trendingdown along with the mb as high as 2600 , but on day #5 the ckstarted rising again to touch a high level of 5000 which wasbeing worked up at the time of transfer. otherwise , she is oncaptopril , lopressor , and doxycycline. interventional cardiologyis following her and recommended heparin for a possiblemicrovascular occlusion in the lower extremities and she wasstarted on heparin on day #5.respiratory: no issues. extubated expeditiously and she wasweaned from oxygen at the time of transfer.gi: taking p.o. and tolerating it well.renal: had issues with urinary infection before , and she had ablocked foley on the day of transfer which was flushed and urineoutput was normal after that and she got a new foley after thatand was noted to have a lot of sediments in the urine at thattime which was sent for ua which is still pending at the time oftransfer.endocrine: she is a diabetic and diabetes service were on boardand the blood sugars were very well control on the 21 of july and on the14 of april the blood sugars seemed to be out of control and hernph was increased according to the diabetes service.hematology: she is on aspirin and plavix for poor targets andcoronary artery disease on 81 mg p.o. q.d. and plavix of 75 p.o.q.d. , and she was transferred with 2 units of prbcs during thiscourse of the icu stay. no active issues at the time oftransfer.id: she was started on levofloxacin , and she was also started onvancomycin for a possible urine infection and that has to becontinued for at least 5 days of levofloxacin for a positive ua.escription document: 0-0857543 emssten teldictated by: steigman , averyattending: alvalle , wilfredodictation id 8620857d: 2/8/04t: 2/8/04[report_end]