026111490 | owh | 07460179 | | 963997 | 7/8/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 3/11/1994 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/10/1994principle diagnosis: 1. bradyarrhythmia.secondary diagnosis: 1. syncope.procedures: pacemaker insertion , 24 of november .identification: sixty year old black female who has a chiefcomplaint of dizziness and syncope. the source ofhistory was the patient , who was a moderate historian and the oldchart. history of present illness: according to the patient , shefirst presented to the medical system in 1989. at that time shewas walking at home and became dizzy. she was taken to meeville valley health in rhode island she was told that she had a heartattack and was placed on a monitor when she was noted to have anepisode of asystole on the monitor. this led to emergent pacerinsertion. after pacer placement , the dizziness never recurreduntil a few months ago. this led to hospitalization on may , 1994at xastu hospital medical center .  she was seen by the pacer servicewho interrogated her pacer and found it functioning normally.however , the pacer lead type ( mechronic 4012 ) is felt to have ahigh failure rate , necessitating a new pacer insertion.unfortunately , the patient left ama before the procedure could beperformed.today , the patient got out of bed and preceded to the bathroom ,where she had a normal bowel movement without any symptoms. shegot up from the toilet and while walking back to bed became dizzyagain. she subsequently passed out for an undetermined time.after waking up she knew exactly where she was and had nopost-ictal symptoms. she fell to the floor , but denies any trauma.she also denied urinary/fecal incontinence during this episode.she adamantly denies chest pain , shortness of breath or significantpalpitations. she presented today to the er for evaluation.medications on admission - none. no known drug allergies. pastmedical history: none. habits: no tobacco , no alcohol. socialhistory: unemployed , divorced , mother of six children. familyhistory: positive for hypertension. no seizure disorder in thefamily and her mother and two aunts have pacemakers inserted.physical examination: admission - morbidly obese black female inno acute distress without complaintspresently. t 98.3 , blood pressure lying down 120/80 , sitting up133/82 , heart rate lying down 72 , heart rate sitting up 80 ,respiratory rate is 16 , o2 sat is 98% on room air. heent -anicteric. clear oropharynx. neck is supple. lungs are clear.back - without spinal or cvat. cardiovascular - regular rate andrhythm. no jugular venous distention. normal s1 and s2 , no s3 ors4 , no murmurs. carotids with normal upstrokes and no bruits.abdomen - positive bowel sounds , obese , soft , nontender , noorganomegaly. extremities - no pitting edema. 2+ radial and dppulses bilaterally. neuro - alert and oriented times three.cranial nerves iii-xii are tested and are intact. sensation isgrossly intact. motor strength - normal gait , not tested.reflexes are 1-2+ patella and biceps reflexes , symmetrically.laboratory data: k 3.9 , mag 2.1 , hematocrit 38.9. chest x-rayis negative. costophrenic angles were notvisualized well secondary to her large habitus. ekg showed normalsinus rhythm at 72 , first degree av block , pr interval of 0.30 ,left ventricular hypertrophy.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the unit. her storywas most consistent with an arrhythmia inducedsyncope. considering her history , it was felt that she certainlyhad a symptomatic bradycardic episode. because her currentpacemaker had a very high failure rate , we recommended changing thepacemaker and the patient agreed. she was placed on the cardiacmonitor without any event over her hospital stay.as part of her prepacer work-up , she had a right upper extremityvenogram which showed patent vessels on that side. the patient hada pacemaker insertedon 24 of november in the or without any complications.the reason it was done in the or was because of her large size andthe strength of the table. after pacer insertion , the patient didvery well without any further symptoms of dizziness or syncope. shewas discharged to home the following day in good condition.disposition: discharge medications - keflex 500 mg q8h for ninedoses , percocet 1-2 p.o. q6h p.r.n. pain. follow-upwill be in the pacemaker clinic.dictated by: kasey naveed , m.d. dk71attending: weldon s. hershfield , m.d. oe10  cx576/9976batch: 226 index no. cmir8k19rq d: 9/20/94t: 9/20/94