368346277 | emh | 64927307 | | 815098 | 3/29/1993 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 3/29/1993 report status: signeddischarge date: 12/10/1993principle diagnosis: coronary artery disease.other diagnoses: peripheral vascular disease ,hypertension.allergies: no known drug allergies.history of present illness: the patient is a 70 year old maleimmigrant from tope riwith a long history of angina. he had been followed in the o lake jack for years with strong indication for interventionalevaluation of his coronary artery disease. the patient had refusedand had been being treated medically inspite of the angina pattern.recently his angina had worsened and he agreed to undergo moreintensive workup. he was referred for elective cardiaccatheterization. past medical history: hospitalization for anepisode of chest pain in s , hypertension and historyof peripheral vascular disease with claudication symptoms.physical examination: on physical exam the patient's temperaturewas 97.7 , heart rate 60. heent: head andneck exam unremarkable. lungs: clear anteriorly. heart: regularrate and rhythm , no murmurs appreciated. abdomen: soft , non-tender.extremities: no edema. had weakly dopplerable pulses. of note , hisphysical exam was performed on his emergent admission to thecardiac care unit after becoming unstable at elective cardiaccatheterization.laboratory examination: his admission laboratory exam wasremarkable for a normal cbc and serum 20general exam. his ekg after cardiac catheterization demonstratedinverted t waves in iii , f and some st depression in v4-v6.hospital course: on elective cardiac catheterization the patientwas noted to have a 90% ostial left anteriordescending coronary artery lesion. he had ekg changes ,symptomatically had chest pain at catheterization. he was referredfor emergent coronary artery bypass grafting. an intra-aorticballoon pump was placed. he was taken emergently to the operatingroom where a 4 vessel coronary artery bypass was performed. therewere no intraoperative complications. postoperatively , the patientdid remarkably well inspite of his dramatic presentation. he hadno vascular complications. his intra-aortic balloon pump wasremoved without incident and he had no specific cardiopulmonarycomplications. his only issue at discharge was urinary retention.he failed several voiding trials. urology service had consulted andfelt this was likely secondary to benign prostatic hypertrophy.disposition: he was discharged home with an indwelling foleycatheter with follow-up arranged at amc urology.medications: his discharge medications include aspirin 1 a day ,iron , colace , mevacor 20mg q day and tylenol #3 p.r.n. he willfollow-up with his cardiologist , urology service and with cardiacsurgery.dictated by: gail g. fahlsing , m.d. ct55attending: berry o. bjornberg , m.d. kq8  zi707/5969batch: 6591 index no. w4olhx874c d: 2/13/94t: 2/13/94