878570799 | hmc | 87322051 | | 096374 | 6/3/1999 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 6/3/1999 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/3/1999principal diagnosis: bilateral lower extremity weaknessother problems:1. history of morbid obesity.2. obstructive sleep apnea.3. atrial fibrillation.4. history of cellulitis.5. ejection fraction of 40 percent with left atrial enlargement.6. urinary tract infection.chief complaint: mr. foller is a very pleasant 59 year-old man whopresents with a history of morbid obesity ,paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and ejection fraction of 40 percentwho presents status post a fall and with increasing urinaryfrequency.history of present illness: mr. neilsen has morbid obesity and iscurrently at a weight of 450 poundsand also has a history of fluctuating weight with decrease inweight to 200 pounds with dieting. he also has obstructive sleepapnea on continuous positive airway pressure , history of atrialfibrillation and is not anticoagulated per his primary carephysician. he has a mildly decreased ejection fraction with mitralregurgitation and a history of cellulitis. he presented in 4/5for a short stay unit admission with progressive lower extremityweakness bilaterally and urinary incontinence. it was felt at thattime by neurosurgery and neurology to be multifactorial and noconsistent with disk or cord impingement. there was a work up atthat time including b12 , ana and hiv all of which were negative.emg showed decreased recruitment in the tibialis anterior andgastrocnemius bilaterally. his rectus femoris were normalbilaterally. he was treated for a urinary tract infection at thattime with bactrim for resolution of his incontinence and he was notanticoagulated by his primary care physician. since discharge henoted continued right greater than left lower extremity weaknessotherwise at baseline health until two weeks prior to admissionwhen he noted some lumbar and sacral pain , nonradiating , worsewhile moving his right leg. over the past few days he noted alsoincreasing urinary frequency without burning or urinaryincontinence , no fever or chills and no costovertebral angletenderness or pain. no bowel incontinence or perianal numbness orpain. the night of admission , at 7:30 p.m. while getting up from achair , his right leg gave out and he fell to the floor "gracefully"without injury or head trauma , no loss of consciousness. he had nopreceeding dizziness , chest pain , shortness of breath orparesthesia and presented to the emergency room at the onven county hospital .past medical history: as above.allergies: penicillin gives him hives.social history: he is a psychology professor , therapist , formerillicit drug use including lsd. no history oftobacco use , currently. rare alcohol use and lives with his wifeof 15 years.family history: varicose veins , early coronary artery disease in abrother who was 50 years old. his parents passedaway in a motor vehicle accident. no history of clots.physical exam: the patient is a morbidly obese man in no acutedistress , sitting in a chair. vital signs showedtemperature of 97.1 , pulse 80 , blood pressure 148/90 , oxygensaturation 96% on room air with a respiratory rate of 20. heent:obese neck. pupils equal , round and reactive to light andaccommodation. no conjunctivitis. oropharynx is clear. mucousmembranes were moist. jugular venous distention not appreciated.chest: clear to auscultation bilaterally. heart: ii/vi systolicejection murmur at the apex radiating to the axilla. irregular ,irregular rhythm. no s3 or s4. abdomen: obese , soft andnontender. abdomen: obese , soft and nontender. nondistended withpositive bowel sounds and a significant rash of his pannus.rectal: strong rectal tone. extremities: right calf was with ashallow , erythematous dry ulcer which was chronic with changesconsistent with venous insufficiency and varicose veins.neurological: nonfocal. strength in the right hip flexor wasdecreased to 4/5 and on the right his plantar dorsiflexion strengthwas 4/5 bilaterally. sensation was grossly intact to touch.finger-to-nose was normal.laboratory data on admission: sodium 140 , potassium 4.5 , chloride102 , bicarbonate 26 , bun 20 ,creatinine 0.9 , glucose 101. he had a white blood cell count of 9with 76 polys , 4 bands , hematocrit 37.6 and a platelet count of236. his urinalysis showed 3+ blood and positive leukocyteesterase with 15-20 white blood cells , one plus bacteria and oneplus squamous cells.hospital course: 1. neurological: the neurology service came byto see the patient in the emergency room and feltthat there was no acute neurologic change but if the patient wasunable to walk he should be sent to rehabilitation. they saw nonew acute change and he should continue to be followed by neurologyin clinic.2. cardiac: he does have a history of paroxysmal atrialfibrillation and echocardiogram with decreased ejection fractionwas noted previously. he will be started on a trial of lasix p.o.q day to decrease his peripheral edema to help him withrehabilitation and his primary care physician will continue tofollow him for his atrial fibrillation and he does elect not toanticoagulate him at the moment though coumadin should be aconsideration given his risk of stroke.3. skin care: right calf demonstrates a pressure ulcer and thepatient should apply nystatin powder for his pannus rash.4. infectious disease: his urinary tract infection will betreated with seven days of bactrim and follow urine cultures.disposition on discharge: the patient will be discharged torehabilitation care for legstrengthening.medications on discharge: aspirin 325 mg p.o. q day , colace 100mg p.o. b.i.d. , lasix 40 mg p.o. q a.m. ,indomethacin 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. pain , lisinopril 15 mg p.o. qday , multivitamin one tablet p.o. q day , bactrim ds one tablet p.o.t.i.d. , tamsulosin 0.4 mg p.o. q day , miconazole 2% topical powderb.i.d.condition on discharge: stable.dictated by: jose flickner , m.d. af23attending: antoine schwertner , m.d. ne45  ym828/6926batch: 0409 index no. f9ib5m95lz d: 8/28/99t: 8/28/99