record #83753565881924 | nh | 11177152 | | 0419709 | 0/23/2005 12:00:00 am | pneumonia | signed | dis | admission date: 9/6/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 0/4/2005attending: greenleaf , merle m.d.service: medicine.admission diagnosis: pneumonia , copd.chief complaint: a 48-year-old female with history of chf , copdand breast cancer with increased shortness of breath for onemonth.history of present illness: the patient had three weeks of coldlike symptoms , which progressively worsened. initially , she hada sore throat and mild headache that progressed to asputum-productive cough. she has been in orthopnea at baselinebut has become increasingly short of breath and requiring morefrequent inhaler treatments. she went to her primary carephysician last week and got azithromycin for presumed pulmonaryinfection. she completed antibiotic course but over the past fewdays has felt even more short of breath. she works at a hospitaland yesterday measured her o2 saturation , which was 76% undermild exertion. she then came to the emergency department todayfor evaluation and treatment.review of systems: significant for cough with yellow sputum anddyspnea on exertion. she has mild subjective fevers but nochills or no night sweats. no chest pain. she does haveheadaches and baseline orthopnea with no pnd.past medical history: significant for copd with a fev1/fvc of81% of predicted in february of 2004. she was hospitalized forthree weeks and intubated for past pneumonia. she did have homeo2 following that hospital course. chf. hypertension.diabetes. left breast cancer 18 months ago status post radiationand surgery complicated by mrsa wound infection. hypothyroidism.medications: lasix 40 daily , levothyroxine 225 mcg daily ,lisinopril 10 mg daily , xanax one tablet t.i.d. , motrin p.r.n. ,combivent , b12 , and potassium chloride 20 meq daily.allergies: erythromycin and flexeril.social history: 30-pack history of tobacco use. she works atcoloradofamily history: noncontributory.physical exam: vital signs , temperature 99.2 , heart rate 86 ,blood pressure 153/88 , respiratory rate 24 , o2 saturation 86%.exam , general , in no apparent distress , pleasant middle-agedwoman sitting in a wheelchair. heent , perrl , no scleral icterus.face flushed with spider angioma. mucosal membranes moist.neck , jvp approximately 7 cm. cv , regular rate and rhythm , 2/6systolic murmur apex radiating to axilla and laterally displacedpmi. chest , no wheezes after nebulizers. mild crackles at rightbase. abdomen , soft , nondistended , nontender , modestly obese.extremities , 2+ pulses , mild lower extremity bilaterally. edemain the upper extremities , left greater than right.laboratory data: on admission , sodium 139 , potassium 4.6 ,chloride 97 , bicarb 31 , bun 14 , creatinine 0.6 , glucose 105 , wbc4.6 , hematocrit 45.8 , platelets 256. lfts within normal limits.coags within normal limits. bnp 46 , ck-mb 0.9 , troponinsnegative. ekg showed normal sinus rhythm , t-wave inversions , v3through v5. chest x-ray shows enlarged heart with right middlelobe opacity.hospital course:1. pulmonary: the patient with possible right middle lobepneumonia versus chf versus exacerbation versus copd versus pe.the patient is found to have pneumonia. she is afebrile withnormal white blood cell counts but continues to be hypoxic to themid 80s on room air. sputum cultures were sent and the patientwas treated empirically with levaquin. levaquin was given for atotal of 8 doses in-house and the patient will continue for atotal of 14-day course. the patient had a pect , which wasinitially read was positive , however , the final read was negativefor pe. the patient initially received a dose of lovenox 100 mgb.i.d. but was discontinued given negative pe. the patient wasseen by pulmonary service who performed the bronchoscopy on9/7/05 , which showed a copious blood-tinged mucosa andcollapsed right middle lobe lung with narrow orifice. brushingsand cytology were taken and sent to pathology and the results arestill pending. the patient's pulmonary function test showedsevere obstructive disease with the fev of 0.9 with some aspectsof restrictive disease. she also underwent a bubble study , whichwas negative for heart septal defects. the pa pressure wasestimated at 42. the patient then underwent a right heartcatheterization to check for vasodilator response and heartfunction. this was performed on 10/28/05 , which showed highright-sided heart pressures and a pulmonary wedge pressure of16-18 and suggested that the patient was not in acute left heartfailure. the patient was also seen by the ookter highway ,pulmonary hypertension consult service , whose impressions werethat the patient's poor pulmonary function is due to copd andpectus cavernosum as well as radiation for breast cancer and ischronic condition. no indication was present for treatment withprimary pulmonary antihypertensive agents. the patient then hada repeat chest x-ray on 10/28/05 to evaluate for the right middlelobe , which continues to be collapsed. the patient was stable on2-3 l of nasal cannula oxygen , saturating at about middle 90s.the patient was re-evaluated by physical therapy on 5/18/05 andwas found to not need any particular treatments at home. thepatient was discharged to home with home o2 2-3 nasal cannula andinstructed to keep o2 saturations above 88%. the patient doeswork in the hospital. the patient's work situation anddisability regarding her lung condition was discussed by theattending physician.2. cardiovascular: the patient is stable with no evidence ofacute chf , complicating dyspnea. the bnp was normal and jvpremained relatively flat throughout her hospital course. thepatient was continued on her outpatient hypertensive medications ,which was captopril and that was given t.i.d. with good control.the patient was also on lasix 40 mg daily , which was thenincreased to 60 on day of discharge to encourage gentle diuresis.3. endocrine: the patient has diet-controlled diabetes at home.she was on insulin sliding scale and house and required onlyseveral units of insulin a day. her blood sugars remained in themid 100s.the patient was on levoxyl 225 mcg daily in-house and was foundto have a increased tsh of 10.5 , therefore dose of levoxyl wasincreased to 250 mcg. the patient is instructed to follow upwith her primary care provider and her endocrinologist in twoweeks to recheck a tsh.4. musculoskeletal: the patient complaining of leg cramps ,chest spasms , and back pain. back pain appears chronic. chestspasms appeared to be musculoskeletal in etiology and notcardiac. the patient was on oxycodone 5 mg q.4h. p.r.n. and thentransitioned to oxycontin 10 mg b.i.d. with good pain control.5. social services: the patient was seen by social servicesregarding prescription coverage , ability to handle copayments.additionally , her concerns regarding short-term disability andlong-term disability for work were addressed. the patient is toinquire with her benefit office to determine for services.discharge condition: stable.discharge disposition: discharged to home with home o2.discharge medications: levaquin 500 mg daily for six more days ,captopril 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , lasix 60 mg p.o. daily ,levothyroxine 250 mcg p.o. daily , xanax 0.25 mg t.i.d. p.r.n. ,oxycontin 10 mg p.o. q.12h. , combivent 1-2 puffs q.i.d.discharge instructions: the patient to call if becoming short ofbreath , has chest pain , fever over 100.5 or any other concerns orquestions.follow-up appointments: include 9/29/05 at bayhead medical center forsleep study where the patient is to arrive before 09:00 p.m. thatnight , 9/24/05 with dr. chesterman at 02:30 p.m. for primary carefollow-up , dr. hilse on 3/6/05 at 04:00 p.m. for follow-up ofpulmonary issues and a two weeks' time follow-up with herendocrinologist regarding her thyroid condition.discharge diagnosis: copd , pneumonia , secondary pulmonary hypertension ,hypothyroidism , hypertension , non-insulin-dependent diabetes.escription document: 5-7182574 cscc: berry althoff m.d.scdi of centergarl ren ley acoln eans pecc: walton grady m.d.pulmonary division , scotcoke reph clinicmong worth sifontheights , wypit war yuwarknascc: burchess her primary care providerdictated by: mccalpin , tedattending: salaza , emiledictation id 3400647d: 9/13/05t: 9/13/05[report_end]