812386341 | mcmc | 66886719 | | 905421 | 2/18/1999 12:00:00 am | ventricular tachycardia | signed | dis | admission date: 3/25/1999 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/25/1999principal diagnosis: atrial fibrillationproblem list:1. gout.2. hypertension.3. abdominal aortic aneurysm status post repair.4. prostate carcinoma.5. status post aortic valve replacement.chief complaint: this is an 81 year old gentleman with a historyof hypertension status post aortic valvereplacement , congestive heart failure , abdominal aortic aneurysm ,atrial fibrillation who presents status post syncopal episode on9/23/99 .history of present illness: mr. ashmore is an 81 year old gentlemanwith a history of hypertension , aorticinsufficiency status post aortic valve replacement , congestiveheart failure and abdominal aortic aneurysm repair who was stablewith baseline dyspnea on exertion until the day prior to admissionwhen he went out to take the garbage. he states that he steppedoff the curb and passed out. he denies any prodrome syndrome anddenies loss of bowel or bladder function. no fever or chills. hedid not recall the event but remembers coming to and his neighborcalling the ambulance. he denies any chest pain , shortness ofbreath , palpitations , associated with the incident and denies anysimilar event in the past. he landed on his left side , face first.mr. biancardi has been treated with propafenone for his atrialfibrillation and two weeks prior to admission was increased from150 mg t.i.d. to 300 mg t.i.d. of note , he had been onprocainamide which was changed to propafenone secondary to anincreasingly positive ana. during his last visit with hiscardiologist , dr. leonard , he was noted to be in atrial fibrillation.his propafenone was doubled and was to be followed. at nair mancedaypi ch hospital , the patient had a work up which included a head ct thatwas negative. his inr was found to be 5.4 and electrocardiogramsrevealed baseline left bundle branch block/widening of the qrs andunderlying atrial fibrillation. he was also found to have a leftlower lobe pneumonia and was treated with antibiotics. he wastransferred here for further evaluation. on 3/7/99 , he was notedto have a wide complex tachycardia in the 150 beats per minuterange.past medical history: 1. prostate cancer treated with hormonetherapy 7-8 years ago. 2. gout. 3.hypertension. 4. abdominal aortic aneurysm status post repair.5. status post aortic valve replacement. 6. status postcholecystectomy.medications on admission: propafenone 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. , coumadindaily , colchicine 0.6 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,allopurinol 200 mg q day , pepcid 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. , captopril 25 mgt.i.d.allergies: no known drug allergies.social history: no tobacco. one drink of alcohol per day. helives with his wife.physical exam: temperature 98.0 , pulse 80 , blood pressure 138/82 ,respiratory rate 20 , room air oxygen saturation 90percent. baseline weight is 193 pounds. general: this is anelderly gentleman with multiple ecchymoses on the face with apacked nose. he is mildly anxious. heent: notable for facialbruises , lacerations on the bridge of the nose with left narispacking. pupils equal , round and reactive to light andaccommodation. tympanic membranes clear. oropharynx is clear.neck: reveals jugular venous pressure about 10 centimeters , 2+carotids , no bruits. lungs: bibasilar crackles , poor airmovement. cardiac: irregularly irregular with a normal s1 and s2with a i/vi systolic ejection murmur heard best at the right lowersternal border and a ii/vi systolic ejection murmur heard best atthe right upper sternal border. abdomen: soft , nontender. goodbowel sounds. no hepatosplenomegaly. no costovertebral angletenderness and no spinal tenderness. extremities: cool ,adequately perfused with 1+ dorsalis pedis pulses. neurological:he is alert and oriented times three. motor strength is 5/5throughout. reflexes are 1+ and symmetric. gait: within normallimits.laboratory data on admission: white blood cell count 7.6 ,hematocrit 40.5 , platelets 139 ,sodium 139 , potassium 4.5 , chloride 104 , bicarbonate 22 , bun 52 ,creatinine 1.3 , glucose 98 , magnesium 2.0 , pt 22.2 , ptt 54.7 , inr3.4.electrocardiogram revealed atrial flutter with rapid response or anaccelerated junctional rhythm at a rate of 85.impression: this is an 81 year old gentleman with no known historyof coronary artery disease who was status post aorticvalve replacement with homograft repair of the abdominal aorticaneurysm on propafenone for atrial fibrillation. now presentingwith a syncopal episode of presumptive cardiac etiology. given hisbaseline supraventricular tachycardia , the most likely explanationwas a rapid ventricular response to atrial fibrillation/flutterwith a widened qrs secondary to propafenone.hospital course: 1. cardiovascular: initially his propafenonewas held given its' ability to increase the qrsinterval. his coumadin was also held given his supratherapeuticinr and recent facial traumas. his hematological status wasfollowed carefully with serial hematocrit checks. he was evaluatedearly on by the electrophysiology service and was started on a lowdose beta blocker to prevent him from going back into atrialfibrillation while off the anticoagulation. an ep study wasplanned , however on 7/17/99 the patient had an episode ofnonsustained ventricular tachycardia which appeared to be differentfrom his baseline atrial fibrillation. in addition this was notlikely to be a bundle branch re-entry pattern and therefore theutility of an ep study was thought to be very low. given this theep service favored placement of a dddr/aidc post cardiaccatheterization to rule out any coronary disease. cardiaccatheterization was performed on 5/13/99 and he was found to haveno coronary artery disease. he went for his dddr/aicd placement on5/13/99 and this was done successfully. he was continued on hiscaptopril and lopressor and in addition , amiodarone was started at400 mg p.o. b.i.d. two days after pacemaker placement he developeda temperature to 101.1 and was cultured. the pacer site lookedclean and was not thought to be infected. he received aicdteaching by the ep service prior to discharge. he will becontinued on his ancef as an outpatient as well.2. hematology: his anticoagulation was held given that he was innormal sinus rhythm and he had extensive facial fractures andwounds. he remained out of atrial fibrillation and was notanticoagulated. his hematocrit and platelets remained stable.3. ent: the patient had received nasal packing to his left narisat northgy county hospital and this remained in place for six days. hewas followed by the ent service here at geer medical centerand their recommendation was for follow up maxillofacial ct scan.this revealed multiple facial fractures but no orbital floorfracture. the ophthalmology service was consulted and theiropinion was that he had a normal examination and no evidence ofocular muscle entrapment , optic neuropathy or globe malposition.therefore no operative intervention was required for hisperiorbital fractures. he is to follow up in the put hospital health center eye clinic upon discharge.he was also seen by the dental service and noted to have infected teeth. he hada fever the day following his dental exam. this needs to be carefully managedas he also has a prosthetic valve.4. neurological: the patient's mental status wasat time somewhat worrisome because he became very sleepy and lethargic , howeveraccording to his outpatient cardiologist , dr. lato , he is oftenthis way. concern was raised for a subdural hematoma given hisrecent trauma. however his mental status waxed and wanedperiodically and he was also alert and oriented times three.disposition on discharge: the patient will be discharged tosoren hetuton medical center .condition on discharge: stable.medications on discharge: allopurinol 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,amiodarone 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. , captopril12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , clindamycin 300 mg p.o. q.i.d. , colchicine 0.6mg p.o. q day , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , lopressor 25 mg p.o.t.i.d. , zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.discharge instructions: the patient is to follow up with dr.buquo as an outpatient and with theinpar hospital ophthalmology group. his amiodaronedose will need to be decreased to 200 mg q day in about two weeksas an outpatient.dictated by: dong mckines , m.d. fp18attending: clemente pendon , m.d. zt50  ek723/2121batch: 8314 index no. c5rpgj11bi d: 5/12/99t: 5/12/99cc: frederic j. kahookele , m.d. uo07