record #614000918306143 | bmc | 12507329 | | 1206196 | 2/24/2005 12:00:00 am | heart failure , hyponatremia | signed | dis | admission date: 9/2/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/22/2005attending: flattery , shad santo mdadmitting diagnosis:decompensated heart failure and hyponatremia.discharge diagnosis:congestive heart failure.chief complaint:transfer from outside hospital for decompensated heart failureand hyponatremia.history of present illness:this is a 65-year-old female with nonischemic cardiomyopathy ,diabetes , obesity with icd/biventricular pacer , chf with ef of15% was admitted to an outside hospital initially for a fall andwas subsequently found to have decompensated heart failure andhyponatremia. the patient was then transferred to memoff deelaen's hospital for further treatment. at the time of the fall , thepatient was not presyncopal , likely due to possibly feeling weak.at the hospital , the patient received p.o. lasix and then ivlasix with little success in treating chf. the patient was foundto have sodium level of 117 , hydrochlorothiazide was thenwithheld and the patient was restricted on fluids. of note , thepatient comes in on coumadin therapy secondary to having a cva in4/10 with no residual symptoms while off coumadin. thepatient denies any history of chest pain , shortness of breath ,palpitations , however , the patient knows that he has hadincreasing dyspnea on exertion and weakness. she also notes someswelling and difficulty lying completely flat.past medical history:1. chf with ef of 15% with biventricular pacer and icd on ananticoagulation.2. cva in 0/83. diabetes.4. hypertension.5. chronic back pain treated with neurontin , xanax , andoxycodone.6. agoraphobic/anxiety disorder.7. hypercholesterolemia.allergies:no known drug allergies.medications:1. hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily.2. digoxin 0.125 mg once daily.3. lasix 80 mg twice daily.4. isordil 30 mg p.o. daily.5. xanax 0.5 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n.6. potassium 60 meq p.o. b.i.d.7. vicodin q.6h. p.r.n.8. coumadin 5 mg monday , wednesday , friday.9. neurontin 100 mg p.o. t.i.d.physical exam at admission:vital signs: temperature 96.6 , blood pressure 98/60 , respiratoryrate 18 , o2 sat 95% , pulse 70. general appearance: no apparentdistress. awake , alert , and oriented to place and person x2 ,somewhat oriented to time , knows ear and month. lungs: cracklesat the bases bilaterally to mid lung fields. heent: extraocularmovements intact. pupils equal , round , and reactive.cardiovascular: s1 , s2 , 3/6 systolic ejection murmur. jvp 18 cm ,regular rate and rhythm. abdominal exam: soft , nontender ,nondistended. positive bowel sounds. extremities: trace edemabilaterally 1+ , 2+ pulses bilaterally. no calf tenderness.neurologic exam: remembers 2/3 objects at 5 minutes , alert andoriented x2-3 , follows commands , slurred speech , a little bitdrowsy but alert. no facial droop. no ptosis. 4/5 strengthbilaterally.laboratory data on admission:sodium 120 , creatinine 0.9 , potassium 4.8 , magnesium 1.9 , whitecount 6.9 , hematocrit 42.5 , inr 2.1.ekg: v paced , sinus rhythm , no ischemic changes.chest x-ray: pleural effusions bilaterally , no infiltrates , chf.hospital course:this is a 65-year-old female with non-ischemic cardiomyopathy ,chf with ef of 15% and on a biventricular pacer , icd , diabetes ,obesity , admitted from outside hospital for treatment ofhyponatremia and decompensated heart failure.1. cardiovascular:a. pump: the patient initially was in significant decompensatedheart failure. as a result , the patient was immediately startedon diuretics with torsemide iv 100 mg twice a day with a goal of-1 to -2 liters daily. daily weights and strict i &amp; os weremonitored daily. the patient was also placed on 1 liter freewater restriction and 2 liters fluid restriction. digoxin levelswere shown to be in normal range. the patient was continued ondigoxin , isordil , and thiazides were held secondary to patient'shyponatremia. over the hospital course , the patient'shyponatremia improved significantly and gradually back up in tothe 130s. the patient continued to diurese well initially with aweight of 83.5 kilograms. at the time of discharge , thepatient's weight was approximately 273 kilograms. the patientalso continued to show much improvement in terms of energy level.subjectively , the patient felt better. zestril was also slowlyadded to patient's chf regimen. at the time of discharge ,zestril 10 mg per day was added. a beta-blocker was also added ,specifically coreg at 3.125 mg twice daily , aldactone 25 mg oncedaily was also added to the regimen. in terms of diuresisinitially , the patient was on 100 mg b.i.d. p.o. torsemide and atone point was switched to lasix drip as the patient was notresponding to diuretics. eventually the patient was transitionedback to an oral regimen with torsemide ultimately at 50 mg p.o.b.i.d.echocardiogram was also performed which showed significant mitralregurgitation with reversal of flow in the pulmonary venoussystem. as a result , there was consideration and discussionabout mitral valve replacement. the patient is amenable toprocedure performed by dr. mcgrue this will be discussed andcoordinated by his office and him. this will be a percutaneousprocedure possibly.the patient's electrolytes were monitored twice daily as thepatient was actively being diuresed. electrolytes were repletedp.r.n.b. rhythm: the patient has no active arrhythmias. however , thepatient's icd and biventricular pacemaker was found to be towardsend of life and required replacement. as a result , although noturgent during this admission , icd/biventricular pacer wasreplaced by dr. neuse on 7/26/05. the patient tolerated theprocedure very well with no complications. the patient's icdpocket was checked for any signs of pocket hematoma or othercomplications. the patient is stable and new icd/pacer isfunctioning properly. no signs of bleeding or infection.c. ischemia: there are no active issues. ekgs demonstrated nosigns of cardiac ischemia. the patient was chest pain freethroughout the hospitalization.2. endocrine: the patient's home regimen was held and thepatient was continued only on a insulin sliding scale after mealsand at bedtime. fingersticks demonstrated good sugar control.fingersticks were managed mostly between 100 and 120.3. fen: the patient was on diabetic diet. the patient was alsochecked twice daily for electrolytes and repleted for magnesiumand potassium scale. sodium was also monitored as the patientwas initially admitted for hyponatremia. as a result , allthiazides were held.4. hematology: the patient had a home dose of coumadin 5 mgmonday , wednesday , friday. the patient's regimen was continuedas inpatient and was slightly modified eventually toapproximately 2 to 2.5 mg once daily. inr was maintainedtherapeutic throughout the hospitalization. icd replacementprocedure per dr. bjella the patient was continued with thefoal inr between 2.0 to 2.5.5. psyche/neuro: continued patient's home regimen of xanax ,neurontin and pain medication to control chronic back pain.6. prophylaxis: for dvt prophylaxis , the patient was on coumadinwith therapeutic inr. for gi prophylaxis , the patient was placedon nexium.physical therapy consult was also called to evaluate thepatient's functional status. the patient also underwent regularphysical therapy sessions inhouse to improve functional status.id: the patient's ua demonstrated possible evidence for urinarytract infection. this may also have contributed to patient'sdecompensated heart failure and also initial complaints offeeling weak. urine culture demonstrated that the patient hadcitrobacter that was sensitive to ciprofloxacin. as a result ,the patient was started on a course of ciprofloxacin. thepatient was also placed in isolation as the strain was resistantto gentamicin. the patient after treatment was taken off contactisolation. the patient was afebrile. vital signs were stablewith no complaints of dysuria , chills , or fevers throughouthospitalization. subsequent ua demonstrated evidence thaturinary tract infection was adequately treated.disposition:the patient to follow up with home cardiologist within one to twoweeks. after discharge , the patient will also follow up with dr.iturbe to discuss further treatment of mitral valveregurgitation. after coumadin follow up and inr blood draws , thepatient will follow up with primary care doctor.escription document: 6-5715912 emssten teldictated by: rosi , alanattending: stroble , waylon heribertodictation id 3085459d: 1/29/05t: 1/29/05[report_end]