620425367 | r | 55585266 | | 549973 | 2/29/1990 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | unsigned | dis | admission date: 2/29/1990 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 10/18/1990discharge diagnosis: 1 )myocardial infarction.2 )congestive heart failure.3 )hypertension.history of present illness: this patient is a 60-year-old whitemale who presented with a two weekhistory of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and dyspnea on exertionadmitted with new ekg changes consistent with myocardial infarctionfor rule out mi. the patient's cardiac risk factors are diabetes ,hypertension , distant smoking history. there is no history ofincreased cholesterol and no family history of heart disease. thepatient noted the onset of exertional shortness of breath aroundthe beginning of 10 of october .  at that time the patient was experiencingincreased stress because of the recent death of the patient'ssister-in-law. the patient consulted his local physician , dr.bret langner , on 14 of october .  an ekg at that time showed no changefrom an ekg of a year earlier. over the next week the patientreported feeling weak , general malaise , experienced occasionalchills with continuing dyspnea on exertion. there was one event on7 of july where the patient experienced chest pain with severediaphoresis and a chill which he attributed to the flu although thepatient did not seek medical attention at that time. over the last10 to 14 days prior to admission the patient noted increasingexertional dyspnea , three episodes of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspneaassociated with right chest discomfort. there was no nausea ,vomiting , diaphoresis , cyanosis. the patient also noted edema inhis lower extremities over the last two weeks. the last episode ofparoxysmal nocturnal dyspnea was this past weekend. on the day ofadmission the patient saw dr. mugrage once again and ekgdemonstrated marked anterolateral changes that were new since theekg taken on 14 of october .  the patient presented to the lacon hospital emergency ward. past medical history: significantfor hypertension of approximately 10 years , non-insulin dependentdiabetes mellitus of approximately 12 years , left bell's palsy in1985 treated with prednisone , type iv hypolipoproteinemia. thepatient was also admitted for right face and arm pain at theskastem, medical center in 21 of april .  this was attributed to tia. carotidnon-invasives at that time along with a head ct were reportedlynegative. the patient also had a right cranial nerve iii palsy in30 of august .  medications: micronase 10 mg po bid , persantine 60 mg potid , aspirin one po q d , lisinopril 5 mg po q d , and atenolol 50 mgpo q d. allergies: none known. social history: there isapproximately 20 pack year history of smoking. the patient quitcigarettes 20 years ago. ethanol history was social. the patientis married , has two grown children. he currently works in a shortterm storage warehouse office , apparently recently lost his tobaccoshop business and there is certainly a potential stress regardinghis employment situation and recent death of his sister-in-lawfollowing a prolonged illness. family history: the patient reportshis parents are still living , has single sibling who is alive andwell. he denies family history of coronary artery disease ,hypertension or diabetes. review of systems: non-contributory.physical examination: the patient was a thin white male in noacute distress sitting up on the stretcher.vital signs demonstrated he was afebrile , blood pressure 140/90 ,pulse 88 , respirations 18. his room air o2 sat was 96%. heentexam normocephalic , atraumatic. left pupil was 5 mm and contractedto 3; right pupil was 4 mm and contracted to 3. his extraocularmovements were intact. fundi were poorly visualized secondary topossible partial cataract. oropharynx was only remarkable forextensive upper bridge work. neck was supple , no adenopathy. hiscarotids were 1+ bilaterally without bruits. his chest exam wasremarkable for decreased breath sounds halfway up , right greaterthan left , with absent breath sounds at the bases. the chest wasdull to percussion halfway up , however , there were no rales ,wheezes or rhonchi noted. cardiac exam revealed jugular venouspulse was approximately 7 cm at 30 degrees , regular rate andrhythm , s1 and s2 with loud s4 , otherwise no murmur or rub.abdominal exam demonstrated bowel sounds were present , non-tender ,liver span 8 cm in midclavicular line. there was no spleen tippalpable. rectal exam normal tone with a firm prostate withoutmasses and stool was guaiac negative. back exam revealed no spinalor cva tenderness noted. there was slight buffalo hump present ,however. extremities - radial pulses 3+ , femoral 2+ , posteriortibial 2+ on the right and 1+ on the left , dorsal pedis 1+bilaterally. there are no femoral bruits. there was 1+ pittingankle edema bilaterally. neuro exam was non-focal.laboratory data: on admission sodium 141 , potassium 4.6 , chloride105 , co2 24 , bun 19 , creatinine 0.9 , glucose 178.alt 20 , ast 18 , ldh 177. ck 107. alk phos 98 , bili total 0.5 ,direct 0.2. cholesterol 236 , triglycerides 320. total protein7.0 , globulin 4.6 , albumin 2.4 , calcium 9.9 , phosphate 3.8. whitecount 6.6 , hct 39.8 , platelets 260 , 000 , three point differentialrevealed 26% lymphocytes , 5.8% monocytes , 68.2% granulocytes. ptwas 12.6 , ptt 31.0. ua was pending. ekg showed normal sinusrhythm at a rate of 84 , pr interval 160 , qrs 84 , qtc 0.44 , axis+30. the ekg was remarkable for q wave in t and f and extensivelyacross the precordium , t wave inversions in 1 , 2 , and r. stelevations of 2 to 3 mm in v2 , v3 , and v4 with t wave inversion inv2 through v6 , all of these changes new since 21 of april .  portablechest x-ray demonstrated bilateral pleural effusions with fluid inthe minor fissures , question of cardiomegaly , increasing pulmonaryvascular redistribution consistent with congestive heart failure.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the general medicalservice ri jotonmavilleceance lisker and subsequently ruled out for miby enzymes. his initial ck was 107. eight hours later his ckdrawn was 45 and final ck was 89. however , the patient underwentechocardiography and the echocardiogram demonstrated a moderatelydilated left ventricle with decreased global contractile function ,roughly estimated at around 25%. there were extensive wall motionabnormalities with mid to distal septal akinesis , anterior ,anterolateral , and septal apex dyskinesis consistent with a largeanterior myocardial infarction. however , there was no muralthrombus seen although occult thrombi could not be excluded at thattime. because of the echocardiogram result and the fact that thepatient ruled out for a recent mi the clinical picture wasconsistent with an evolved myocardial infarction within the timebetween the patient's initial presentation to dr. connelley in 10 of octoberand the patient's presentation in 16 of october .  consequently the plan wasmade to manage the patient with gentle lasix diuresis. thepatient's beta blocker was held because of the concern for wallmotion abnormalities and possible aneurysm formation. the patientwas anticoagulated on heparin and subsequently was loaded oncoumadin. in addition the patient's afterload reduction wasincreased and changed to captopril. in addition the patientunderwent an exercise tolerance test with thallium scan on1 of november .  during this procedure the patient exercised for 6minutes on modified bruce protocol. the test was stopped secondaryto leg fatigue. the patient's heart rate rose from 98 to 150 ,blood pressure rose from 126/72 to 148/76. the patient had nochest pain. there was no evidence for ischemia. thallium imagesshowed a moderately severe perfusion defect at the apex sustainedto the low anterior wall , inferolateral wall , and septum. thisdefect was unchanged on late images. there were , therefore , nosigns of ischemia , however , there was some mild transient loss ofuptake consistent with chf. the overall impression was of a fixeddefect consistent with an evolved myocardial infarction. becauseof the evidence for an evolved myocardial infarction the decisionwas made that this patient would not be a candidate for coronaryartery bypass grafting and so cardiac catheterization was deferredat this time. the patient was discharged to home on 16 of april .  atthe time of discharge a ua and sediment were pending.disposition: discharge medications: lasix 40 mg po q d , captopril37.5 mg po tid , ecotrin 325 mg po q d , coumadin 5 mgpo q h.s. , magnesium oxide two tablets po q d , isordil 10 mg po tidwith meals , and micronase 10 mg po bid. condition on discharge:stable. follow-up: with dr. luciano catignani in his office ontuesday , 9 of august , at 3 p.m.________________________________ vh270/5248brian s. more , m.d. st6 d: 10/15/90batch: 6813 report: v9920q0 t: 2/18/90dictated by: terry scalese hdx7cc: 1. hubert grim , m.d.