record #253493072274871 | ah | 93517091 | | 942938 | 11/10/1992 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 3/24/1992 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/29/1992discharge diagnosis: transient ischemic attack. problem listincludes history of left hemisphericcerebrovascular accident resulting inshortterm memory loss and right sidedweakness , left greater than right , whichoccurred in 1981 , peripheral vascular diseasestatus post right femoropopliteal bypassangioplasty times three in 1989 , history ofchronic obstructive pulmonary disease , andhistory of atypical chest pain.history of present illness: this is a 58 year old white male witha history of peripheral vasculardisease and old left hemispheric cerebrovascular accident whopresents with a right sided arm weakness and numbness. in 1981 ,the patient suffered a left hemispheric cerebrovascular accidentwhich resulted in shortterm memory loss and right sided weakness ,leg greater than arm. the right sided deficit eventually resolved ,however , his lower leg remained numbness and weak , distal greaterthan proximal. ten days prior to admission , the patientexperienced a transient episode of loss of vision in his right eye.he states that he felt as if his lid was closed over his right eyeand he asked his wife whether this was actually the case.approximately ten to fifteen seconds later , the "blindness"disappeared and his normal vision returned. two days prior toadmission , patient began to experience chest pain and subsequentlytook sublingual nitroglycerin. he states that his pain brieflyimproved but would then recur much more severely. this complexevent occurred three times before the pain began to subside.immediately following the second episode , the patient states thathe began to feel increasing weakness in his right hand. thesensation increased over the course of the entire day and becameso bothersome at night that he had trouble sleeping. he thenbecame concerned that he might have had a stroke ( the weaknessreminded him of his previous cerebrovascular accident ) and hedecided to come to the scodoun of hospital for evaluation.in the emergency room , he had a head ct done which was negative andalso an ekg which showed normal sinus rhythm. he deniesdysarthria , loss of consciousness , and/or dizziness. past medicalhistory: in 1981 , as stated , peripheral vascular disease , statuspost right femoropopliteal bypass angioplasty times three in 1989 ,status post l5-l6 discectomy in 1984 , persistent lumbar disc , emgconsistent with mild to moderate denervation of lower extremitymuscles , left greater than right , consistent with polyradiculopathyor spinal stenosis , history of esophageal reflux and esophagealspasm , history of atypical chest pain , angina , reportedly hadnegative coronary catheterization , status post bilateral kneesurgery for a history of osteoarthritis , status postcholecystectomy , status post small bowel obstruction times two withenterolysis , and history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.current medications: calan sr 120 mg q.d. , tagamet , sublingualnitroglycerin p.r.n. , and azmacort. allergies: penicillin.family history: negative for diabetes and hypertension butpositive for increased cholesterol and heart disease. he has asixty pack year history of smoking , no history of alcohol orintravenous drug abuse. social history: he is a married retiredauto mechanic.physical examination: he was a pleasant male , he was lying in bed ,and appeared older than his stated age.vital signs showed temperature 98.7 , pulse 82 , blood pressure144/90 , and respirations 18. lungs: clear bilaterally withdistant breath sounds bilaterally. heart: regular rate and rhythmwith no murmurs. no carotid , ophthalmic , vertebral , or temporalbruits auscultated. abdomen: soft and non-tender with scar inright upper quadrant consistent with old cholecystectomy.neurological: examination showed mental status with patient alertand oriented times three , attention showed digit repetition of fiveforward , forward , backward , language with spontaneous speech ,normal fluency , and normal comprehension , and patient pointed toobjects in sequence good. yes and no questions normal , word andsentence repetition normal , naming and word finding normal , readingnormal , writing normal , and memory showed immediate recall good andremote memory three out of three events , new learning ability , andfour out of four objects at five minutes. numered constructionability and clock were normal , cube unable to reproduce , andcranial nerves showed ii with bilateral horizontal nystagmus ofabout ten beats noted bilaterally. vii nerve showed right sidednasolabial fold droop and mild ptosis. patient had a history ofbell's palsy. all other cranial nerves were normal , motorexamination was showed tone normall throughout , bulk was normalthroughout , and his upper extremities showed right upper extremitywith deltoid of 5 , triceps 5 , biceps 5 , wrist extensors 4+ , wristflexors 4+ , finger extension 4+ , and finger flexion 4+. upperextremity on the left side showed deltoids 5 , triceps 5 , biceps 5 ,wrist extensors 5 , wrist flexors 5 , finger extension 5 , and fingerflexion 5. lower extremities showed , on the right iliopsoas of 5 ,hamstring 5 , quadriceps 4+ , gracilis 4+ , at 4+ , and ehl 4+ with , onthe left iliopsoas 4 minus , hamstring 4 minus , quadriceps 4 minus ,gracilis 4 minus , at 4 minus , and ehl 4 minus. sensoryexamination of the upper extremity right normal light touch , pain ,and temperature except for some decreased joint position about theright finger and left upper extremity showed normal joint position ,light touch , pain , and temperature. lower extremity joint positionwas decreased about the ankle on the right and also decreased onthe left , light touch was decreased , and pain and temperature weredecreased all in the same distribution on the right and the areawhere a graft had been taken. there was normal on the left sidefor light touch , pain , and temperature. reflexes in the upperextremity were 2 throughout , reflexes in the lower extremity was 1throughout , babinski not present bilaterally , normalfinger-to-nose , and gait was not tested.laboratory examination: on admission , he had a white count of 9 ,hemoglobin 14.6 , hematocrit 40.9 , mcv88.4 , platelets 221 , his pt was 12 , and ptt was 35. his urine wasclear and clean and sma 7 was normal.hospital course: the patient was ruled out for myocardialinfarction with cardiac enzymes. during hishospitalization course , patient was heparinized and ptt was kepttherapeutic. patient had an mra angiography on 4/29/92 of thehead which showed a left area of enhancement in the left pons. hehad an echo which was normal except for an echodense lesion about acm above the aorta , possibly an atherosclerotic plaque , and he hadcarotid dopplers which were normal. the discharge impression was lacunardisease , but embolism ( of unclear origin ) could not be ruled out.disposition: discharge medications: calan sr 120 mg q.d. , tagametat 400 mg t.i.d. , and aspirin 325 mg q.d. thepatient is sent home with follow-up with dr. hannemann in two weeks.eu631/7852lemuel l. ringhand , m.d. no8 d: 11/24/92batch: 2126 report: p1713m6 t: 0/23/92dictated by: kory freibert , m.d.[report_end]