862707960 | shs | 17702146 | | 647627 | 6/2/1995 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/25/1995 report status: signeddischarge date: 7/21/1995principal diagnosis: left lower extremity wound infectionhistory of present illness: this is a 54 year old gentlemanwho is status post a four vesselcoronary artery bypass graft on 6/15/95 at an outside hospital.the patient's postoperative course was complicated by respiratoryfailure secondary to presumed phrenic nerve injury. the patientalso developed congestive heart failure. in addition , the patienthad undergone embolectomy and left lower extremity fasciotomy forleft lower extremity ischemia on 5/25/95 . the patient now presentsto dr. jaysura with infected left lower leg pressure ulcer withopen and gangrenous muscle exposed through this posterior wound.the patient was at the rehabilitation center prior to this transferto the wickpro conch medical center .  the patient had no documentedfebrile episodes.past medical history: significant for insulin dependentdiabetes mellitus , peripheral vasculardisease , coronary artery disease , congestive heart failure , historyof atrial fibrillation/flutter , right sacroiliac joint decubitusulcer.past surgical history: as above. coronary artery bypass grafton 7/23/95 . left lower extremityfasciotomy on 5/25/95 .medications on admission:1. aspirin 81 mg po qd2. digoxin 0.325 mg po qd3. azmacort 6 puffs inhaled bid4. heparin 5000 units subcu bid5. zantac 150 mg po bid6. lasix 40 mg po qd7. capoten 25 mg q 88. albuterol nebulizers 0.5 cc in 2.5 cc normal saline qid9. nph insulin 38 units subcu bid10. nystatin swish and swallow 5 cc po qid11. bactrim ds one tab po bidthe patient has no known drug allergies.social history: significant for 100 pack/year history.physical examination: temperature 100. blood pressure 120/47 ,pulse 103 , sinus tachycardia. ingeneral , the patient was trached and in no acute distress. thepatient's skin revealed mottled distal extremities. heent:normocephalic , atraumatic head. trach was in place with a collar.lungs: bilateral inspiratory wheezes , scattered throughout.heart: regular rhythm with sinus tachycardia. distant heartsounds. no s3 or s4 were noted. the patient had no obviousmurmurs. abdomen: positive bowel sounds. the patient was obese.abdomen was nontender , nondistended with no palpable masses. thepatient had multiple ecchymoses. neurologic: the patient wasalert and oriented times three. cranial nerves ii through xiigrossly intact. extremities: right buttock with approximately a10 square centimeter decubitus ulcer. the patient's right lowerextremity revealed a previous harvest scar with about a 2 cmincision and breakdown over the calf area. distal foot has amottled appearance but has dopplerable posterior tibial anddorsalis pedis pulses. the toes are cool and insensate. leftlower extremity revealed three open ulcers with marked gangrenousmuscle exposure. the patient had a dopplerable posterior tibialwith cold pulses but no dopplerable dorsalis pedis pulse. thepatient was insensate distally from the region of the wounds downto the feet.hospital course: the patient was taken to the operating roomon 9/11/95 for a preoperative diagnosis of aleft lower extremity infected pressure sore. intraoperatively , thepatient was noted to have necrosis of both heads of thegastrocnemius muscle including the soleus and also a portion of thelateral compartment. the muscle appeared black and necrotic andthere was a marked amount of purulence. aerobic and anaerobiccultures were obtained at this time and sent to microbiology forgram stains and cultures. all of the visibly blackened andnecrotic muscle was removed and the wound was irrigated withcopious amounts of antibiotic-containing solution. the patientappeared to tolerate the procedure well and was sent to theintensive care unit , given the patient's cardiac history as well ashis ventilator dependence.the patient was seen by the infectious disease service and wasstarted on ampicillin , gentamicin and flagyl empirically untilculture results returned. the patient was taken back on 2/8/95for a second irrigation and debridement procedure. during thisprocedure , some necrotic skin , subcutaneous tissue and fascia werenoted and were sharply debrided free. the wound was relativelyclean upon completion of the procedure with no apparent loculationsor collections or purulence. the muscle also at this time appearedviable and it was considered that the wound may heal on its own.the patient was seen by the vascular surgery service as well forhis history of left lower extremity ischemia and for his loss ofhis dorsalis pedis pulse on his left foot. the left foot remainedcool and insensate with no motor function. the patient did howeverhave flexion and extension at the knee.after adequate irrigation and debridement , it was felt that thepatient would not require amputation of his lower extremity giventhe viability of the muscle.neurologic. the patient was alert and awake postoperatively. thepatient was appropriate in his neurologic status. the patienthowever did appear to have some episodes of anxiety for which hewas placed on klonopin 1 mg po tid. the patient continued to dowell and had his pain adequately controlled with po percocet.respiratory. the patient was initially weaned off the ventilatorto continue his positive airway pressure with 5 of peep and 5 ofpressure support with 50% fio2. the patient's tidal volumes wereconsistently elevated over 600 and the patient had no subjectivecomplaints of shortness of breath. however , on postoperative day#4 and #2 , the patient noted some difficulty catching his breath.pressure support was increased back up to 10. this inability ofthe patient to maintain his spontaneous tidal volumes wasconsistent with a respiratory fatigue secondary to hisdiaphragmatic dysfunction. however because the patient appeared tobe weaning from the ventilator initially postop , it was decidedthat the patient should have his diaphragmatic function assessed tosee if there had been any change.the patient underwent a fluoroscopy study to assess hisdiaphragmatic excursions on 10/29/95 . the test revealed nodiaphragmatic excursion consistent with phrenic nerve injury. itwas decided at this time that the patient would remain on hisprevious ventilator settings of 10 of pressure support and 5 ofcpap and 50% fio2 and no further weaning would be attempted.gastrointestinal. the patient arrived on tube feedings of promote.because we do not have this at our institution , the patient wasstarted on a similar formula of full strength ensure high proteinat 105 cc/hour. this meets the patient's full nutritionalrequirements.however , because the patient appears to have no reason for notencouraging his oral intake , the patient's tube feeds weredecreased to 50 cc/hour throughout the day for a 12 hour period andpo intake at this time was encouraged. the patient then received12 hours of his tube feeds at 105 from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. thepatient was placed back on his normal subcutaneous doses of insulinnph 38 units in the morning and 38 units at night.the patient has been treated intermittently with insulin drip forcontrol of his blood sugars during the times he was taken to andfrom the operating room. our goal for this patient is to attemptto encourage his oral intake and to cycle his tube feeds only atnight. the patient should have 24 hour calorie counts initiated toassess the adequacy of this oral intake.gu. the patient has a foley catheter in place and has good urineoutput. the patient has excoriations around his inner thighs whichprevented us from removing his foley in case the pt has episodes ofurinary incontinence. once the patient's inner thighs heal , thepatient may have the foley removed and the patient may be able tovoid on his own in either a bedside urinal or with a condom cath inplace. the patient is receiving his lasix 40 mg a day.cardiovascular. the patient was initially ruled out for amyocardial infarction following his first operative procedure. thepatient has had no complaints of chest pain. the patient'scardiovascular status has been stable with cvp's running in the 12to 13 range. the patient had no episodes of hypotension and hasbeen continued on his capoten.hematologic. the patient has been stable with no issues. thepatient continues on subcutaneous heparin.infectious disease. the patient was treated with ampicillin ,gentamicin and flagyl. the patient's intraoperative cultures fromhis left leg ulcer grew out e. coli , sensitive to ampicillin andofloxacin. the patient also grew out enterococcus , sensitive alsoto ampicillin and ofloxacin and enterobacter cloacae , sensitive togentamicin and ofloxacin. the patient was switched over fromgentamicin to ofloxacin to continue his antibiotic course. thepatient has been followed by the infectious disease service.because of the time of operation , it was considered that theinfectious tissue was completely debrided , and the patient does notneed to continue on an extensive antibiotic course.the patient will receive 7 more days of po ofloxacin as anoutpatient as per the id service. the patient will have received ,prior to discharge , a total of 7 days of iv ampicillin andofloxacin. the flagyl was discontinued after day #6.tubes/lines/drains. the patient had a triple lumen catheter inplace which was removed on the day prior to discharge. the patienthad a peripheral iv placed in instead. the patient will not bereceiving any iv medications and will continue on oral antibioticdosings.addendumdischarge medications: the patient's medication upon dischargewhich include: 1 ) tylenol 650 mg p.o. q4hp.r.n. headache. 2 ) aspirin 81 mg p.o. qd. 3 ) albuterol nebulizer0.5 cc in 2.5 cc of normal saline q.i.d. 4 ) capoten 25 mg p.o. qh.5 ) chloral hydrate 500 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia. 6 ) clonopin1 mg p.o. t.i.d. 7 ) digoxin 0.375 mg p.o. qd. 8 ) colace 100 mg p.o.b.i.d. 9 ) lasix 40 mg p.o. q d. 10 ) heparin 5000 units subcu b.i.d.11 ) insulin nph 38 units subcu b.i.d. 12 ) milk of magnesia 30 ccp.o. qd p.r.n. constipation. 13 ) multivitamins one capsule p.o. qd.14 ) mycostatin 5 cc p.o. q.i.d. 15 ) percocet one or two tabs p.o.q3-4h p.r.n. pain. 16 ) metamucil one packet p.o. qd. 17 ) azmacortsix puffs inhaled b.i.d. 18 ) axid 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. 19 ) ofloxacin200 mg p.o. b.i.d. x 7 days.dictated by: josiah h. olivos , m.d. as86attending: michel stockon , m.d. sk38  sg360/2894batch: 151 index no. vcyub71qu5 d: 10/28/95t: 10/28/95cc: 1. numbers caristo , m.d. ck452. dewayne g. gettel , m.d. xb33. reggie w. marzett , m.d. pq084. harpstrict a memorial hospital