record #562291302266533 | cch | 37318884 | | 3396431 | 0/18/2003 12:00:00 am | ischemic heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 4/24/2003 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/15/2003history of present illness: this patient is a 72-year-old womanwith ischemic cardiomyopathy statuspost cabg in 1995 who presented with palpitations. the patientsaid her symptoms developed about a month ago. she has had stressfor the last few months. her husband died six months ago frompancreatic cancer. when her palpitations developed she assumedthat they were related to anxiety. she said that she would feel arapid heart rate that would last about thirty minutes at a time andoccurred several times a week. she denied any chest pain orsyncope with these episodes. she presented to cardiology clinic tosee dr. hupp where an electrocardiogram was done and she was foundto have a heart rate of 162. her blood pressure at that time was100/60. she was admitted to the cardiology service for furtherevaluation.past medical history: 1. coronary artery disease , status postcoronary artery bypass graft ( cabg ) in may ,1995. vessels bypassed were the lima/lad , svg/pda. her cabg waspreceded by her first mi in march 1995 where she was found tohave stenosis in her stenosis in her lad , rca. she had pci to bothvessels in the intervening period. she had unstable angina and wasrecathed which showed restenosis leading up to her cabg. her lastechocardiogram was in july , 2001 that showed an ejection fraction of20%. 2. type 2 diabetes which is complicated by peripheralneuropathy. 3. hypertension. 4. gout. 5. anxiety anddepression.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications on admission: pravachol 10 mg p.o.q.d.; elavil 20 mgp.o. once a day; allopurinol 3 x week;toprol 25 mg once a day; lasix 40 mg once a day; accupril 10 mgonce a day; digoxin 0.125 mg once a day; xanax t.i.d. p.r.n.social history: the patient's husband died six months ago ofpancreatic cancer. he was a retired cho s achepoliceman. she has a long history of heavy smoking but is notcurrently smoking. she denies any alcohol use. she lives alone onthe e lane , ma , arizona 97322 but has a daughter who lives in cosa lare stinphysical examination: vital signs: temperature 98.6 , heart rate104 , blood pressure 100/60 , satting 96% onroom air , breathing 18. general: she is in no acute distress.heent: extraocular movements intact. pupils equally round andreactive to light and accommodation. jvp flat at 45 degrees.cardiovascular: she had a laterally displaced pmi , normal s1 ,split s2. lungs: clear to auscultation bilaterally. abdomen:soft , nontender , nondistended , positive bowel sounds. extremities:lower extremities were warm with 1+ edema bilaterally. neuro:cranial nerves ii-xii were intact.electrocardiogram on admission showed normal sinus rhythm with leftatrial enlargement and left bundle branch block. herelectrocardiogram in clinic showed a wide complex tachycardia and aleft bundle branch block. her chest x-ray showed no pulmonaryedema or infiltrate.hospital course: this patient is a 72-year-old woman with asignificant ischemic heart disease who wasadmitted with wide complex tachycardia.1 ) cardiovascular - ischemia: the patient's abnormal rhythm waspresumed to be ventricular tachycardia given her history of severeischemic heart disease. once her tachycardia was stabilized shewas taken to catheterization which showed patent grafts. she didhave a small increase in her troponin but this was thought to berelated to demand. she did not have any complaints of chest painduring the hospitalization. we continued her on her beta blockerand initially held her digoxin while we were controlling herrhythm. she was slightly hypotensive during her episodes oftachycardia so we initially held her accupril as well , but hermedications were resumed a few days before discharge.pump: at the time of admission the patient was classified ashaving class ii heart failure although she did admit to not beingvery active and it was felt that if the patient exerted herselfmore she would have more symptoms. on her catheterization herpulmonary capillary wedge pressure was found to be 31 with a normalright atrial pressure. she also had a repeat echocardiogram whichshowed an ejection fraction of 15% with 1+ mr and a thick aorticand mitral valve. she did not exhibit any signs of volume overloadduring her hospitalization and we continued her home dose of lasix.we also kept her on a two liter fluid restriction but hercreatinine soon began to increase from a baseline level of 1.4 to apeak of 2.1. the patient did admit that she drank a significantlylarger amount of fluid at home and so she was quite hypovolemic incomparison to what she was normally used to. as a result weliberalized her fluid restriction and her creatinine normalized.rhythm: when the patient arrived her tachycardia resolved and shewas in normal sinus rhythm. however , later that evening she wentback into ventricular tachycardia. she had stayed in ventriculartachycardia with her heart rate often reaching the 130s for severalminutes at a time. her blood pressure was always stable in the90s/50s. she denied any chest pain. she was given an amiodaroneload of 150 mg iv x 1 over 20 minutes and also started on a p.o.load of 400 mg p.o. t.i.d. over the next two days she continued tohave episodes of sustained ventricular tachycardia for five minutesat a time and ultimately her ventricular tachycardia progressed sothat she would have episodes of 10-15 minutes at a time. when shebecame symptomatic she was started on an amiodarone drip. this wasdone through a peripheral line and after several hours the patientdeveloped a mild phlebitis. she was taken off the drip and placedagain on p.o. amiodarone. her vtac was thought to be primarily dueto her ischemic cardiomyopathy and we discussed the need for an icdwith her. she was reluctant but ultimately agreed. we did alsodiscuss the possibility of an ep study and ablation but the patientpreferred the least invasive method possible. while the patientwas currently in compensated heart failure , as mentioned previouslyit was felt that this was because she did not exert herself anyfurther , and that it was likely that she would within the next yearor two , decompensate and have more symptoms of congestive heartfailure. because of the severity of her disease a dual-chamberpacemaker was also placed at the same time as the icd. the patienttolerated the procedure well. by the time of discharge heramiodarone was decreased to 200 b.i.d. this will likely bedecreased to 200 q.d. as an outpatient. she did not have any moreepisodes of vtac.2 ) endocrinology: we kept the patient on her same insulin regimenof 60 units in the morning and in the evening and covered her withan insulin sliding scale.3 ) pulmonary: the patient will have pulmonary function tests asan outpatient given her therapy with amiodarone. at baseline shedid not have any pulmonary complaints.4 ) id: when the patient was given iv amiodarone she did developphlebitis. despite the fact that the amiodarone was quicklydiscontinued , she did develop what appeared to be a mildcellulitis. she was started on keflex and her cellulitis resolved.during the hospitalization she also had a urinary tract infectionwith e. coli. we were limited in the antibiotics that we couldchoose. we did not want to use levofloxacin because of thepotential to prolong her qt given that she was taking amiodaroneand elavil. she had an allergy to bactrim which had a reportedhistory of renal failure. we were not able to find out any moredetails on this reaction. as a result we gave her a seven-daycourse of cefpodoxime given that the uti was speciated to e. coli.5 ) rheumatology: the patient has a history of gout. we continuedher allopurinol.disposition: the patient was sent home with her daughter. we didoffer for her to have vna but she refused and feltthat her needs would be met at her daughter's house. at the timeof discharge she was not sure whether she was going to move back toher home eventually in the ba or whether she was going tosell her home and move closer to family.followup: the patient has follow up appointments with dr. stuberand dr. buhr she will have pulmonary function tests.discharge medications: pravachol 10 mg p.o. once a day; elavil 20mg p.o.q.d.; nph 60 mg q. a.m. and q. p.m.;allopurinol 300 mg monday , wednesday , friday; glucotrol 10 mg p.o.once a day; toprol 25 mg once a day; lasix 40 mg once a day;accupril 10 mg once a day; digoxin 0.0625 once a day; amiodarone200 mg twice a day; keflex 250 mg p.o. x 2 doses; cefpodoxime 100mg p.o.q.d. x 2 days. please note that we decreased the patient'sdigoxin dose from 0.125 to 0.0625 given the addition of amiodarone.dictated by: avery f. molchan , m.d. wes memorial hospitalattending: freeman m. kalar , m.d. pshck837/081018batch: 57671 index no. selk8t2kd0 januarynovember[report_end]