321608247 | mch | 69633321 | | 811641 | 3/24/1995 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 2/10/1995 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/16/1995principal diagnosis: atrial flutter.secondary diagnosis: 1. hypertension.2. lvh.3. hypercholesterolemia.4. asthma.5. borderline diabetes mellitus.6. obesity.7. gastritis.8. allergic rhinitis.9. depression.10. osteoarthritis.11. right knee effusion.12. impotence , status post implant.history of present illness: this is a 60 year old , black malewho initially presented for an injuredknee , which occurred three days ago at work. he was noted intriage to have a blood pressure of 210/130 and was triaged tourgent. the patient has had a long-standing history ofhypertension and he stopped his medications actually about twomonths ago when he ran out of prescriptions. following this thepatient began to note some difficulty with dyspnea on exertion andhas also noted some altered sensations in his chest during the weekprior to admission , which lasted approximately one to two secondsand occurred primarily at rest. these occurred across his chestbut did not radiate. the patient stated his shortness of breathhas become progressively worse. he has had no orthopnea.basically , over the past three weeks the patient has noted ( 1 ) hisirregular heart beat , as if he is missing beats , although he doesnot note any tachycardia , ( 2 ) dyspnea on exertion , includingorthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , and ( 3 ) intermittentsubsternal chest pain which occurs only at rest and not withexertion. he described this as an ache and stated it did notradiate. the episodes lasted , at the most , four to five minutes ,and resolved on their own without any other symptoms. he deniesany syncope or presyncope. four years ago , as mentioned , heslipped at work , bending his right leg , and has subsequently hadincreased swelling of his right knee , foot and calf , also with somecalf pain. today was a holiday and he had off from work , so hecame to the emergency ward , primarily for evaluation of his kneeand his dyspnea. at that time they found that he was in atrialflutter.past medical history: his past medical history includeshypertension , lvh , asthma , increasedcholesterol , borderline diabetes mellitus , obesity , gastritis ,allergic rhinitis , depression , osteoarthritis , chronic right kneeeffusion , and impotence , status post penile implant.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications on admission: his medications include procardia xl60 mg q day , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg qday , mevacor 40 mg q day , ventolin and beconase inhalers , seldanep.r.n. , zantac 150 mg b.i.d. , elavil 25 mg h.s. , and paxil 20 mg qday. he has not taken these in the past two months.social history: he is married and lives with his wife. he is abulldozer operator. he does not smoke , drink oruse any drugs.family history: his family history is negative for coronary arterydisease.physical examination: his physical examination showed a blackmale in no acute distress. his pressure atthe time of admission examination was 170/100. his heart rate wasin the 50 to 80 range. respirations were 16. temperature was98.7. he was satting 98 percent on room air. heent was benign.neck was supple without lymphadenopathy. the lungs had somebibasilar crackles and slight wheezes on the left. the heart wasirregularly irregular with an s1 , s2 and s4. there were nomurmurs. the abdomen had normal bowel sounds and was soft , mildlyobese and non-tender. there was no hepatosplenomegaly. rectal washeme negative per emergency ward. extremities showed 1+ rightedema and some trace , left sided , lower extremity edema. rightknee was very swollen and he had right calf tenderness but no cord.on neurological examination he was alert and oriented times three.examination was non-focal.laboratory data: labs showed a sodium of 142 , potassium 4.4 ,chloride of 102 , bicarbonate of 26 , bun 14 ,creatinine 1.1 , and blood glucose was 122. magnesium was 1.6. ckwas 385 and mb was 2.9. white cell count was 7.8 , hematocrit 43.7 ,and platelets were 234 , 000. his pt was 12.7 , ptt 24.4. chestx-ray showed increased cardiac silhouette , pvr , and there were noinfiltrates. the knee film showed a large effusion , which waspresent in the past , and some osteoarthritis but no sign offracture. the patient had lower extremity non invasives which werenegative and a vq scan which was read as between low andintermediate probability.assessment: this is a 60 year old man with long-standinghypertension , now off medications for two months. hepresented with new atrial fibrillation , mild congestive heartfailure and intermittent atypical chest pain. given symptoms werepredated by a leg injury , his lower extremity non invasives werenegative and vq scan was low to intermediate probability , thepossibility of pulmonary embolism was not further pursued. likelymechanism is poorly controlled hypertension and conduction systemdisease causing atrial flutter and congestive heart failure. hislow rate is worrisome for intrinsic conduction disease and it wasconsidered that there was no need for anticoagulation for atrialflutter.hospital course: as noted , the patient had lower extremity noninvasives and vq scans which were essentiallynegative and he was not treated for pulmonary embolism , as it wasconsidered to be ruled out. he had an echocardiogram during hisadmission which showed 50 percent ejection fraction with inferiorhypokinesis and left atrial size of 4 cm. the patient remained inatrial flutter during his admission and was coumadinized for theconcern he may be slipping from atrial flutter to atrialfibrillation occasionally. he was also started on digoxin. thepatient remained stable and did well. he ruled out for myocardialinfarction. he was then discharged for follow up with dr.gulbraa for his general medical concerns and will have anappointment with dr. linegar for cardioversion and an exercisetolerance test. the patient's dig levels and pt will be checked asan outpatient by the vna services and these will also be called todr. beckler . the patient's admission was without complication.medications on discharge: the patient's discharge medicationsand dosing were ventolin two puffsq.i.d. p.r.n. shortness of breath , ecasa 325 mg p.o. q day , digoxin0.25 mg p.o. q day , prozac 20 mg p.o. q day , lisinopril 30 mg p.o.q day , mevacor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , naproxen 325 mg p.o. b.i.d.p.r.n. pain , procardia xl 90 mg p.o. q day , azmacort six puffsb.i.d. , axid 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , serevent two puffs inhaler b.i.d. ,coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.h.s.disposition: condition on discharge: the patient's condition ondischarge was stable. disposition was to home withservices. disability: estimated disability was mild.dictated by: sammy c. bosack , m.d. gb38attending: antonia bobbie scoville , m.d. ij63  jd240/8876batch: 14744 index no. j4kfn3630n d: 10/22/95t: 10/8/95cc: 1. monroe buckholz , m.d. gk37cleo kenny fallow , m.d. yn47