record date: 2065-12-29	cardiology		gretna chiropractic center	re:  s/p pfo closure using a 25 mm cribiform amplatzer device on 12/05/63dear dr. yancy:   it is a pleasure seeing mrs. xuereb in follow up s/p her pfo closure on 12/05/63 using a 25 mm cribriform amplatzer device. her history is also significant for inferior stemi the morning after arthroscopic shoulder surgery for adhesive capsulitis in 10/63, protein s deficiency, copd, htn and dyslipidemia. she is doing well from the cardiac perspective. she continues to note a rare, short-lived palpitation but states that these have definitely lessened in nature over the years. she does report, however, that she began to note non-exertional, short-lived episodes of chest pain which started about 1 month ago. she says that by the time she "thinks about taking a sl ntg", the pain has resolved. her catheterization revealed non-significant cad. significant spasm in the ostium of the rca. the distal rca at the prior intervention site looks normal. she denies any further neurological events or headaches. of note, she reveals that a few weeks prior to onset of chest pain she began smoking again. she was smoking 5 cigs/day, and has stopped since saturday when she resumed her chantix treatment plan. our last recorded lipid profile drawn on 5/2/2064: chol: 135, hdl: 50. no tg or ldl noted. she has had this repeated since and is being followed by dr. yelton. we concur with ldl goal of &amp;lt;100.	past medical history:   cad-s/p imi following shoulder surgery with evidence of acute thrombotic occlusion of her rca; no other atherosclerotic lesions identified. ? paradoxical emboli. s/p thrombectomy with export catheter - 10/04/2063 pfo with large right to left shunting protein s deficiency (? secondary to estrogen replacement) adhesive capsulitis r shoulder; s/p arthroscopic surgical repair 10/3/2063 may thurner syndrome- seen by dr. jones - no intervention needed gerd dyslipidemia htn dm2 (diet controlled) - hgba1c elevated for about 3 yrs s/p partial hysterectomy h/o small bowel obstruction copd		changes to allergies	penicillins - reaction: rash [reviewed]	family history:   mother: died at 72 - colon ca father: died at 82 - ? pna. hx of dm, copd siblings: 12 siblings - all alive and well	social history:   divorced. 3 grown children. works at calista co., veterinarian for exotic animals. tobacco: 40 pack yr hx, quit before shoulder surgery-taking chantix etoh: none exercise: no formal exercise diet: no particular diet caffeine: 2 cups/day	review of systems:   no lightheadedness, dizziness, presyncope or syncope. rest of review of systems is negative in detail.physical examination:	-bmi: 26.1  overweight, moderate risk-pulse: 8667  nsr-weight: 171  lbs.-neuro:   a&amp;amp;o x3-extremities:   le: no edema-abdomen:   normal bowel sounds. nontender. no hepatosplenomegaly or aortic enlargement appreciated.-cardiac:   apical impulse is nondisplaced. rate and rhythm regular. s1 s2 without murmur/rub/gallop.-chest:   lungs are clear to auscultation anteriorly-neck:   supple. jvp &amp;lt;5cm. carotids 2+ with good upstroke and no bruits.-heent:   normocephalic, atraumatic.-general:   healthy, in nad-bp: 130/68  mmhg-skin:   warm, anicteric, without rashes. 	ekg:   nsr, 67bpm. 	assessment and plan:   in summary, xian is a 59-year-old female s/p myocardial infarction, likely the result of paradoxical emboli via a large pfo, and s/p closure of her pfo on 12/05/63 using a 25 mm cribriform amplatzer device. she remains stable from the cardiac perspective, and denies any further neurological events. given her new onset of chest pain, and recent return to smoking, we have asked her to stop smoking and call us in 2 weeks to report any change in her chest pain. if at that time, the pain has persisted we will obtain an ett without imaging; if her pain has resolved with smoking cessation we will ask her to follow up with her pcp to continue with smoking cessation plan. we have asked that she have dr. paulette yancy fax us a copy of her most recent lipid profile for our records and have reiterated the ldl goal of less than 100 for secondary prevention of strokes. we have asked her to obtain a tte without bubbles for our annual review, and will call her once these results are available to us. we agree with continuation of her asa therapy and will see her in follow up appointment in 1 year with another tte without bubbles. 		medication list (confirmed)				confirmed		- advair hfa  250 bid		- aspirin  325 mg daily		- prilosec  po daily take one hour before the first meal of the day		- simvastatin  80mg po qpm		- ventolin hfa  prn			------------------------------------------------------------				removed		- lipitor  40 mg daily			dx tests ordered:   tte without bubblesit was a pleasure seeing ms. xuereb in followup today. please do not hesitate to call with any further questions/concerns. sincerely, 			floyd fong md	transcribed by: clara d decker	signed electronically by  floyd fong, md pager #81895document status: final