653962019 | armc | 44888831 | | 9009414 | 10/14/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/22/2005 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: honsinger , andrea mdservice: cardiology.principal diagnoses: pulmonary edema , hypertensive urgency ,non-st-elevation myocardial infarction , status postcatheterization.list of problems and diagnoses:1. hypertension since at least 1995.2. diabetes.3. hyperlipidemia.4. obstructive sleep apnea , on cpap.5. status post cerebrovascular accident.6. pneumonia.history of present illness: the patient , mr. genuario is a44-year-old married hispanic male with a history of diabetes;hypertension; hypercholesterolemia; and obstructive sleep apnea ,on cpap , who presented to the ryans valley hospital emergency room on november ,2005 , with complaint of shortness of breath. his wife reportedthat he has been experiencing gradually worsening shortness ofbreath since the afternoon of october , 2005 , without any chestpain. he has increased dyspnea on exertion , needing to use acpap at night. he was found to be hypertensive to the 200/100 ,with florid pulmonary edema and hypertensive encephalopathy. thepatient was then intubated for airway protection and oxygenationand admitted to the r.f. hospital icu where he was diuresedaggressively. the patient's hypertension was difficult tocontrol , requiring labetalol initially and then a successfulregimen of iv nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , hydralazine , andlopressor. the patient received a tee on november , 2005 , whichshowed concentric lvh , no wall motion abnormalities , and ef of45%. there was a concern for aortic dissection onechocardiogram , but an mri/mra revealed no dissection. thepatient was also frequently agitated requiring increasing dosesof versed and fentanyl as well as p.r.n. haldol and zyprexa.during the admission to nymo hospital , he had lateral st segmentdepressions on multiple ekgs and a non-st-elevation mi ( nstemi )with a peak troponin of 20 on november , 2005 , a peak ck of 430 ,and a peak mb of 20. he was started on asa , heparin ,beta-blocker , statin , and integrilin and transferred to the ihon march , 2005 , for management for possible catheterization.at the mancharl tuvange memorial hospital icu , the patient also had marked hyperglycemiaand was put on a ??___?? protocol.at the ston n ccu , he was found to have a cardiac enzyme leakwith a peak ck of 286 , ck-mb of 6.2 , and troponin of 13.8 , whichtrended down. his ekg showed signs of evolving anterior mi. thepatient was continued to be maintained on aspirin , plavix , andlipitor while integrilin was discontinued on ccu day #2 as thepatient was not stable for cardiac catheterization. his bloodpressure continued to be very difficult to control. the patientcame in from the pamc with a nitroglycerin drip , which was weanedand transitioned to norvasc 5 mg q.d. , captopril 25 t.i.d. ,lopressor 100 q.i.d. , and hydralazine 50 q.i.d. however , hisblood pressure continued to rise ??___?? on ccu day #4 andnipride drip was initiated. this increase was in the setting ofconfusion ??___??. his nipride was weaned on day #5 and his p.o.blood pressure medications were restarted with systolic bloodpressure goal of 140. the patient also had an episode of sinuspause of greater than 2.5 seconds on september , 2005 , with nosymptoms. iv labetalol was discontinued after that episode.ccu course was complicated by the patient spiking a fever to104.1 on ccu day #3 , and he was started on broad spectrumantibiotics for presumptive icu pneumonia. he was started onvancomycin , ceftazidime , and levofloxacin was added. the ccucourse was also complicated by the patient developing left-sidedweakness in the left lower extremity on icu day #5 , which wasconcerning for cva. an mri/mra was obtained which showed smallvessel disease consistent with hypertension-inducedcerebrovascular accident and no evidence of embolism. anechocardiogram was obtained and was negative for any cardiacsources and emboli and with a negative bubble study. secondaryto the patient's mental status and question of inability toswallow , an ng tube was placed; however , it was self-discontinuedby the patient on september , 2005. the patient was transferred tothe cardiology team on january , 2005 , for further medicalmanagement prior to cardiac catheterization for thenon-st-elevation mi.review of systems: negative for chest pain , shortness of breath ,dyspnea on exertion , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , fevers ,chills , and dysuria.past medical history:1. hypertension. difficult to control on multiple regimen andfollow at lch .2. diabetes , also very difficult to control. his lasthemoglobin a1c was 11.4 on august , 2005.3. obstructive sleep apnea , on cpap.4. hypercholesterolemia.5. status post cerebrovascular accident secondary tohypertension.6. status post icu pneumonia.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications:1. home medications: metformin 1 g b.i.d.; actos 30 q.d.;tricor 145 q.d.; aceon 8 mg q.d.; acetabutolol 400 mg b.i.d.;lasix 60 mg p.o. b.i.d.; tiazac 420 q.d.; crestor 20 q.d.; andcatapres-2 patch.2. medications on transfer: aspirin 325 q.d.; plavix 75 q.d.;lipitor 80 q.d.; lopressor 50 t.i.d.; captopril 50 t.i.d.;hydralazine 20 q.i.d.; famotidine 20 b.i.d.; colace 100 b.i.d.;senna; heparin subcutaneously 5000 units t.i.d.; vancomycin 1 gq.12h. day #10; ceftazidime 2 g q.8h. day #7; and levofloxacin750 q.d. day #4.social history: the patient works in shipping. he lives withhis wife and three kids. positive history of tobacco , noalcohol , and no iv drug use.physical examination: vital signs: t-max and t-current are100.9; blood pressure is 138 to 190/72 to 102; pulse is 62 to 79;respiratory rate 18 to 20; and o2 saturations 96% to 98% on 2liters. general: the patient was slightly confused andagitated , but answers in english and remembering his anniversary.heent: perrl. positive subconjunctival hemorrhage , rightgreater than left. pulmonary: some mild wheezes and upperairway breath sounds bilaterally at the base; otherwise , clear.cv: regular rate and rhythm. s1 and s2. mild systolic murmurat the left lower sternal border. abdomen: soft , nontender , andnondistended. positive bowel sounds. obese. extremities: noclubbing , cyanosis , or edema; 2+ dp pulses. neurologic: slightleft-sided weakness , 4/5 , in the upper and lower extremities.deep tendon reflex 2+ and symmetric.laboratory data: his labs are significant for sodium 142 ,potassium 4.0 , chloride 111 , bicarbonate 27 , bun 26 , andcreatinine 1.2. his blood sugar is 172. his white count is 8.6 ,hematocrit 29.2 , and platelets 200.studies:1. on march , 2005 , his ekg showed st abnormality and possiblelateral subendocardial injury.2. on february , 2005 , echocardiogram showed lv mildly dilatedconcentric hypertrophy. function is normal. ef was 55% with nowall motion abnormalities.3. mri/mra with multiple small vessel infarctions; one in theleft cerebellum noted in the posterior corpus callosum , multiplein the centrum semiovale on the right hemisphere.4. renal ultrasound , which showed bilaterally symmetric kidneyswith no hydronephrosis.5. eeg abnormal consistent with moderate to diffuse cerebraldysfunction , possibly secondary to toxic metabolicencephalopathy. no definite epileptiform abnormalities.6. chest x-ray showing cardiomegaly and vascular congestion.7. all his blood cultures and urine cultures had no growth todate.assessment and plan: this is a 44-year-old male with history ofhypertension , diabetes , high cholesterol , and obstructive sleepapnea presenting with hypertensive crisis , pulmonary edema ,status post icu stay complicated by multiple strokes andleft-sided weakness , non-st-elevation myocardial infarctionlikely demand ischemia secondary to hypertension and agitation ,hyperglycemia requiring ??___?? protocol , and question oficu-acquired pneumonia with spiking fever needing the use ofbroad spectrum antibiotics. the patient is now transferred tothe floor for further management prior to catheterization.hospital course by systems:1. cv: ischemia: ekg showing sign of an evolving anterior mi.the patient continued to be on aspirin , plavix , and lipitor. thepatient received a catheterization on august , 2005 , which showsleft oblique marginal #1 with 90% discrete lesion that wasstented to 0 with a des stent and rca with 80% discrete lesionstented to 0. the patient was stable postcatheterization.pump: the patient's blood pressure continued to be high on thefloor. he was started on captopril 50 t.i.d. , eventuallyincreased to 100 t.i.d.; hydralazine 20 q.i.d. iv , eventuallyswitching over to 50 p.o. q.i.d. the patient was restarted onhome medication of clonidine patch as discontinuation can causelabile hypertension. he was also started on lasix 80 mg p.o.b.i.d. during the catheterization , the patient was found to havea pulmonary wedge pressure of 17 , which is elevated. he wasgiven iv lasix to diurese. he diuresed very well with the p.o.and iv dose.rhythm: the patient had two episodes of sinus pause greater than3 seconds on september , 2005 , with no episodes since september ,2005. it could be secondary to obstructive sleep apnea versusconduction abnormality. electrophysiology service was consulted.the ep service encouraged the patient to wear a cpap deviceduring the day. his beta-blocker was held secondary to the sinuspause. however , after the catheterization and with the result ofobstructive lesion , the patient was restarted on low-dosebeta-blocker with atenolol 25 mg q.d.2. pulmonary: when transferred , the patient's sedation wasweaned and he was without any pressure on ccu day #4. he hadreceived lasix for pulmonary edema. he continued to diuresed onthe floor with 80 mg p.o. of lasix.3. id: the patient had spiked a fever to 104.1 on march ,2005 , with a question of pneumonia. he was continued on hisvancomycin , ceftazidime , and levofloxacin for a 14-day course.his vancomycin will be completed on discharge while he will needto continue on ceftazidime and levofloxacin duringrehabilitation. the patient was mrsa negative. he continues tohave low-grade fever , but no frank fever over 100.4. the patientcontinued to improve and does not complain of any subjectivefever.4. gi: the patient received an ng tube on september , 2005 , but itwas self-discontinued. he had speech and swallow test , which hepassed and was started on the house diet. the patient received anutrition consult for his diabetes and was put on a cardiac anddiabetic diet. his magnesium and potassium were repleted.5. renal: on admission , his creatinine was 1.6 and trended downto 1.2 and 1.1 prior to discharge. we thought that hisincreasing creatinine is likely secondary from hypertensiveinjury. the patient was given mucomyst prior and aftercatheterization. he tolerated the ace inhibition with no rise increatinine.6. neurologic: on ccu day #5 , the patient developed weakness inthe left upper and lower extremity with concern for cva.neurologic consult was initiated and mri and mra were obtained.mri/mra showed small vessel disease consistent withhypertension-induced cva. he had a negative echocardiogram andnegative bubble study. the patient was given some physicaltherapy and will likely need rehabilitation.7. endocrine: the patient takes humalog 75/25 50 units beforebreakfast and 20 units before dinner , nph 20 at bedtime , and alsoactos and metformin. here , the patient was given a novologsliding scale with 14 units of novolog q.a.c. and lantus 35q.h.s. he will be continued on these doses and will need to betransitioned to his home medications once he goes home.8. prophylaxis: the patient will receive ppi and heparin forprophylaxis.code: full.disposition: the patient will likely need rehabilitation for hisprolonged icu course and also for his stroke.discharge medications: the discharge medications will bedictated as an addendum pending discharge.escription document: 5-9330199 sssten telcc: delmar roseburbustill memorial hospitalhuntcc: raul bornmann mdlaucc: sam brownsberger , md , ph.d. ,anale hospitaldictated by: mullett , haywoodattending: jondle , marydictation id 9703848d: 5/25/05t: 5/25/05