record #170931577648827 | gh | 41713287 | | 190200 | 0/19/1990 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | unsigned | dis | admission date: 0/12/1990 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 2/2/1990discharge diagnosis: coronary artery disease.additional diagnoses: 1 ) hypertension.2 ) diabetes mellitus.history of present illness: wesley malick is a 56 year old womanwith coronary artery disease , historyof unstable angina , and status post ptca in july of l990presenting with crescendo exertional angina. cardiac risk factorsinclude positive for hypertension and diabetes , family history , andelevated cholesterol. negative for tobacco and negative forprevious myocardial infarction. the patient initially presented injuly of l988 with chest pain. she had an exercise tolerancetest at that time where she went nine minutes with non-diagnosticchanges. in may of l988 , she had an exercise tolerance testwith thallium. she went 7 minutes and 33 seconds stopping becauseof shortness of breath with non-diagnostic changes and demonstratedreperfusion defects. she was treated at that time with diltiazemand enalapril. patient did well until february of l990 when shewas admitted to the uscven medical center with unstableangina and electrocardiogram changes. an exercise tolerance testat that time demonstrated six minute and twenty second durationwith blood pressure response of l46/86 and global greater than 2 mmst depressions. the patient went to catheterization where she hadnormal filling pressures. she was noted to have a 30% leftanterior descending lesion , a 90% dl lesion , and a 40% ombl lesion.at that time , her ejection fraction was 43% and she was noted tohave inferior hypokinesis. patient was treated at that time with aptca. her dl was reduced from 90% to 20% without complications.patient has done well since that time until about five days priorto admission when she noted increasing exertional angina whilewalking up stairs that was relieved easily with one nitroglycerin.this continued to progress , always symptoms occurring with exertionwith several episodes of pain on the day of admission notassociated with shortness of breath , diaphoresis , nausea , vomiting ,or radiation. patient said that her longest episode of pain wasapproximately twenty minutes. this was because she did not haveher nitroglycerin with her and was unable to take any medication.patient denies any history of rest pain. in addition , the patienthad some suggestion of difficulty sleeping at night requiring morepillows. however , she denies that this is related to herbreathing. patient has no history of medical non-compliance anddenies any constitutive symptoms such as fevers , chills , sweats ,rash , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , or change in bowel habits.past medical history: 1 ) hypertension. 2 ) diabetes , adultonset. 3 ) elevated cholesterol. 4 ) carpal-tunnel syndrome. 5 )status post total abdominal hysterectomy. 6 ) colonic polys. 7 )gravida xiv , para 9 , ab 5. 8 ) thyroid tumor resection. currentmedications: 1 ) lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. 2 ) isordil l0 mgp.o. t.i.d. 3 ) ecotrin one tablet p.o. q.d. 4 ) lovastatin 20 mgp.o. q.d. 5 ) insulin 60 units of nph and 20 units of czi everymorning and 20 units of nph and 6 units of czi every afternoon. 6 )nitroglycerin p.r.n. allergies: the patient denies any known drugallergies. social history: the patient lives with her husband whois very supportive and has a close relationship to all of her ninechildren.physical examination: on admission , the patient was a pleasantobese white woman in no apparent distress.her temperature was 98.6 , blood pressure l52/84 , pulse 70 , andrespirations l6. skin: without lesions. heent: clear oropharynxwithout any lymphadenopathy. pupils equal and reactive to light.neck: demonstrated a well healed thyroid scar , supple withoutmasses. chest: clear. there was a question of some crackles atthe bases. cardiovascular: there was no evident jugular venousdistention , carotids were l+ bilaterally , and sl/s2 withoutmurmurs , rubs , or gallops. abdomen: obese , soft , and non-tenderwith normal bowel sounds. extremities: without edema. pulses:dorsalis pedis 2+ bilaterally and posterior tibial of l+bilaterally. neurological: non-focal.laboratory examination: on admission , electrolytes were withinnormal limits. hematocrit was 40 , whiteblood cell count was l3.0 , and platelets were 28l , 000. chest x-raywas within normal limits. ecg demonstrated a sinus rhythm at 90beats per minute with an axis of 0 , intervals of 0.l6/0.06/0.32 ,and there were some t wave inversions in i and l with l mm stdepression that was upsloping in v4 through v6 without significantchange from january , l980.hospital course: patient was admitted to a monitored bed and wasruled out for myocardial infarction with serialck enzymes of l76 , l33 , and ll5. there were no evident changes inher serial ekg. of note , however , her second ekg had leadreversal. patient did well after admission with no evident chestpain. there was some concern on admission with the story ofdifficulty sleeping at night raising the possibility of somecongestive heart failure. however , throughout the admission , thepatient showed no symptoms of this. indeed , she slept wellthroughout the nights without any difficulty breathing and therewas no evidence of congestive heart failure on her chest x-ray. thepatient went for cardiac catheterization which demonstrated thatshe had , in fact , reoccluded her dl vessel to 95% stenosis and ofnote , she also had her ombl with a 50% lesion. however , it wasnoted on catheterization that there was a small dissection proximalon the dl vessel providing a relative contraindication to reattemptat ptca. therefore , this procedure was not attempted. it was feltthat the best approach for this patient would be to improve hermedical management at the present time and then at some future dateif necessary , to bring the patient back to catheterization with thehope that an attempt at ptca could be made later. the patient'slopressor was increased to 75 mg p.o. t.i.d. and her isordil wasincreased to 30 mg p.o. t.i.d. the patient underwent exercisetolerance test using the standard bruce protocol and she went forsix minutes and four seconds stopping because of shortness ofbreath denying any chest pain. however , she did have l.5 mm flatst depressions in leads ii , iii , and f and the lateral leads aswell as a l/2 mm st elevation in avl.disposition: patient was sent home on her current medicalmanagement with the understanding that she shouldreport any changes in her symptomatology as well as should maintainclose follow-up with dr. maher . she will carry with her , atall times , nitroglycerin. discharge medications: 1 ) ecotrin onetablet p.o. q.d. 2 ) insulin 60 units of nph and 20 units ofregular q.a.m. and 20 units of nph and 6 units of regular q.p.m. 3 )lovastatin 20 mg p.o. q.p.m. 4 ) lopressor 75 mg p.o. t.i.d. 5 )isordil 30 mg p.o. t.i.d. condition on discharge: good. herdisposition is to home with follow-up appointments within a weekwith dr. malecki .________________________________ ne955/9880rodrick mcaree , m.d. vp05 d: 2/24/90batch: 0752 report: j5470f7 t: 0/13/90dictated by: aaron drumgo , m.d.[report_end]