record #827931757633121 | shr | 39434670 | | 081816 | 0/5/2001 12:00:00 am | urosepsis , myocardial infarction | signed | dis | admission date: 0/5/2001 report status: signeddischarge date: 0/29/2001principal diagnosis: 1. bka.2. e. coli urosepsis.3. non-q-wave mi.significant problems: 1. morbid obesity.2. pulmonary edema.3. pulmonary hypertension.4. rule out pe.5. obstructive sleep apnea.6. acute renal failure.this is the third daughters wyckwe hospital hospitalization forthis 46-year-old morbidly obese female with a history ofinsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus complicated by bka on two prioroccasions , admitted to the micu with bka , urosepsis , and anon-q-wave mi. on presentation to the emergency department , thepatient was confused and therefore proved to be a difficulthistorian , but she complained of four days of epigastric pain withradiation under her right breast. she also complained of abdominalpain for 4-5 days associated with nausea , but denied vomiting ,diarrhea , constipation , hematochezia , or melena. in addition , shecomplained of some dysuria for the same time period , as well assubjective fevers , but denied cough , shortness of breath , or anyprior history of heart disease or chest pain.on presentation to the emergency department , her vital signs werenotable for a blood pressure of 189/92 , pulse rate of 120 ,respiratory rate of 20 , and an o2 sat of 90%. she was found tohave a finger stick blood glucose of 354 , a positive urinalysis ,and an ekg that was concerning for ischemia. she was started on ivinsulin , given sublingual nitroglycerin x three , 4 mg of morphine ,5 mg of lopressor , and started on a heparin drip and ivantibiotics , and admitted to the micu for further management.past medical history: 1. insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ,with a history of bka in march 1992 in thesetting of e. coli sepsis of unclear source , history of bka inmarch 2001 in the setting of ms contin withdrawal. 2.hypertension. 3. iron deficiency anemia. 4. fibroids. 5.status post c-section complicated by wound infection anddehiscence. 6. sciatica and low back pain secondary to discherniation.medications: the patient was unable to provide the dose of hermedications , but her medication list on admissionincluded insulin , amitriptyline , flexeril , valium , prozac , andalbuterol and atrovent inhalers.allergies: no known drug allergies.family history: patient was unable to provide significant detailsof her family history.social history: notable for positive tobacco use , approximatelyone cigarette per day. she was unable to say forhow many years. positive ethanol use , approximately one drink perweek. she denied iv drug use or other illicit drug use. she ismarried and has three children.review of systems: as noted in the hpi.physical examination: vital signs on admission to the micu:temperature 103.7 , pulse 110 , blood pressure125/55 , respiratory rate 34 , o2 sat 95% on 2 l. in general , shewas an obese african american female who was confused , but alertand oriented x two. heent: pupils were equal , round , and reactiveto light. extraocular movements were intact. oropharynx was dryand was notable for a fruity odor. lungs: clear to auscultationbilaterally. neck: supple. cardiovascular: regular rate andrhythm , no murmurs , rubs , or gallops , with normal s1 and s2.abdomen: obese , positive bowel sounds , soft , nondistended ,positive tenderness in the left lower quadrant , with no guarding orrebound. extremities: 2+ distal pulses , 1+ edema. rectal exam:guaiac negative , with normal tone per ed physician.labs: sodium 139 , potassium 3.9 , chloride 105 , bicarb 19 , bun 37 ,creatinine 2.1 ( increased from her baseline of 1.4 ) , glucose379 , calcium 8.1 , magnesium 2.1 , phosphorus 3 , alt 33 , ast 56 , alkphos 119 , t bili 1.0 , amylase 13 , lipase 3 , white blood cell count14.7 , with 85% polys , 9 bands , and 4 lymphocytes , hematocrit 34.1 ,platelets 122 , pt 14.2 , ptt 29.1 , inr 1.3 , abg t at 7.4 , pco2 32 ,po2 82 , o2 saturation 96% , ck 12-35 , mb 1.5 , troponin 1.52 , betahydroxybutyrate .7. positive ace test. urine and serum toxicologyscreens negative. urinalysis was notable for a ph of 5.5 , specificgravity of 1.02 , 3+ protein , 3+ glucose , 1+ ketones , 3+ bloods ,positive leuk esterase and nitrites , 45-50 white blood cells , 3-4red blood cells , 3+ bacteria , and 1+ squamous epithelium. urinebeta-hcg was negative. the chest x-ray showed cephalization andinterstitial edema. her initial ekg showed .5-1 mm st depressionsin leads 1 and avl , 1 mm st elevations in leads v1 and v2 ,flattened t waves in leads 1 , avl , v2 , and v3.summary: this is a 42-year-old morbidly obese female with ahistory of insulin-dependent diabetes mellituscomplicated by bka on two prior occasions , who was admitted to themicu with a bka in the setting of urosepsis and a non-q-wave mi.hospital course: her hospital course by systems is as follows:1. endocrine: as noted above , the patientpresented with bka in the setting of urosepsis and a non-q-wave mi.she was placed on an insulin drip and hydrated with intravenousfluids , with improvement. she was eventually transitioned to nphwith insulin sliding scale coverage. despite escalating her doseof nph up to 65 u subcu b.i.d. on the day of discharge , shecontinued to have elevated blood sugars &gt;200 and required coveragewith insulin sliding scale. this issue will need to be addressedas an outpatient.2. pulmonary: posthydration , the patient was noted to haveincreasing respiratory rates and o2 requirements and rales on exam.as her creatinine had improved concurrent with hydration , she wasgently diuresed. an echocardiogram was obtained to assess her leftventricular function in the context of her non-q-wave mi , which wasnotable for normal left ventricular function , with an ef of 50% ,hypokinesis of the inferior septum , a right ventricle that wasmildly enlarged , with mildly decreased systolic function , normalaortic valve , mild tr , and mild mr , and a pulmonary artery pressureof 39 mm of mercury plus right atrial pressure consistent withpulmonary hypertension and no pericardial effusion. with her bodyhabitus putting her at risk for dvt and pe , an echocardiogram whichshowed evidence of pulmonary hypertension raised the concern for pebeing responsible for her symptoms of tachypnea and tachycardia. aspiral ct was obtained that was nondiagnostic secondary to her bodyhabitus. a vq scan was obtained , which was read as low probabilityfor pe. in addition , she also had negative lenis. these studiestaken together alleviated the concern of pe or dvt in her. it wasfelt that the patient likely had obstructive sleep apnea secondaryto her body habitus. she was maintained on cpap during herhospitalization stay; however , the patient informed the treatingteam that she would not be using a cpap machine once she returnedhome secondary to the inconvenience and discomfort.3. id: on admission to micu , given her positive urinalysis , shewas placed on cefotaxime for gram negative coverage. both herblood cultures and urine cultures grew out e. coli which weresensitive to cefotaxime and gentamycin. as she initially continuedto be febrile and continued to have positive blood cultures , onedose of gentamycin was given for synergy. subsequently , sheimproved. she remains on iv cefotaxime for the 7-day period thatshe was in the micu. on transfer to the floor , she was switched top.o. levofloxacin and will take 7 days of p.o. levofloxacin tocomplete a total 14-day course of antibiotics for urosepsis.4. cardiovascular: patient ruled in for a non-q-wave mi by ekgand enzymes. her peak ck was 1200 , with a troponin of 1.52. shewas initially placed on aspirin , heparin , and a beta blocker. onceher creatinine normalized , an ace inhibitor was also added.heparin was discontinued once the concern for pe was alleviated.her beta blocker and ace inhibitor were titrated up for a goalsystolic blood pressure of &lt;140 and a pulse of &lt;70. she wastransferred to the floor on hospital day 7 , where she remainedstable. another guanosine mibi was obtained , as the patientreported that she would be unable to exercise , given her chroniclow back pain and sciatica. a planar study was done secondary toher body habitus , which revealed a moderate sized area of priormyocardial infarction throughout the mid lad coronary territory ,with moderate residual peri-infarct ischemia. the cardiologyservice did not feel that the degree of this lesion warrantedcatheterization , given the sizable risk of catheterization in her.5. renal: on presentation , the patient had a creatinine of 2.1 ,up from her baseline of 1.4. she was felt to have acute renalfailure , secondary dehydration , in the setting of diabeticketoacidosis. she was rehydrated and concurrent with this hercreatinine returned to her baseline and remained stable thereafter.6. gi: on admission to the micu , the patient was placed on giprophylaxis with carafate. once she was tolerating p.o.'s , she wasplaced on an ada diet and her carafate was discontinued prior todischarge. once transferred to the floor , the patient complainedof diarrhea; however , the nurses did not witness and were unable toobtain a stool sample to check for c. diff toxin. patient wastreated symptomatically with imodium p.r.n. diarrhea. prior todischarge , the patient was counseled by the nutrition serviceregarding an appropriate diabetic and coronary artery disease diet.7. pain: on admission , the patient was on several pain medicines ,including amitriptyline , flexeril , and valium for reported historyof sciatica and low back pain. on this hospitalization , thesemedications were discontinued and she was placed on neurontin forlikely diabetic neuropathy.discharge medications: enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. ,nph humulin insulin 65 u subcu b.i.d. ,human insulin sliding scale: for blood sugars 151-200 give 4 u ,for blood sugars 201-250 give 6 u , for blood sugars 251-300 give 8u , for blood sugars 301-350 give 10 u , imodium 2 mg p.o. q. 6 hrs.p.r.n. diarrhea , niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , nitroglycerin 1/150one tab sublingual q. 5 min. x 3 p.r.n. chest pain , multivitaminone tab p.o. q.d. , simvastatin 10 mg p.o. q.h.s. , neurontin 600 mgp.o. t.i.d. , levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d. x 5 days , toprol xl 400mg p.o. q.d. , lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q.d.condition upon discharge: stable.disposition: prior to discharge , the patient was evaluated by thephysical therapist , who noted her to walk around thehospital eldsche st , lake corp ver , alaska 29176 without significant problems. they felt that shewould be safe to discharge to home and did not need home pt , butagreed that she would benefit from cardiac rehab , for which she wasreferred. patient was discharged to home on hospital day 9 , withvna , who will monitor her blood pressure , pulse , and blood sugar ,and contact her pcp with any concerns or questions. she willfollow up with her pcp , dr. carmine guillebeau , at wndh in one week'stime , and she will follow up with dr. sammie derobertis of cardiologyat gons landgilesnyton dralvail in may . dictated by: damian tabisola , m.d. dattending: broderick turpen , m.d. ij11  we511/247457batch: 33669 index no. mkynkn6rwb d: 10/9/01t: 10/9/01[report_end]