649731351 | lsh | 98949623 | | 1459783 | 7/27/2005 12:00:00 am | pregnancy , labor | signed | dis | admission date: 4/16/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/14/2005attending: wedd , elliot mdadmitting diagnosis:diabetes management and teaching.discharge diagnosis:diabetes management and teaching.id/chief complaint:ms. in is a 32-year-old g6p2-0-3-2 at 22-6/7 weeks' gestationalage admitted for blood sugar control after first prenatal visitin special ob clinic. her dating is by her last menstrualperiod , which was 9/26/05 , giving her an estimated date ofconfinement of 2/27/05 .  an ultrasound at 14 weeks done duringan er admission for vaginal bleeding confirmed her gestationalage. prenatal screen were not known at the time of admission.history of present pregnancy:ms. horka had been scheduled to see a midwife at do 1 buthad been unable to keep appointment. her pregnancy thus far hasbeen notable for:1. late prenatal care.2. hypertension. she has had blood pressures that were140's/90's several months prior to pregnancy. her blood pressurein clinic on the day of admission was 139/79.3. diabetes , likely type 2 , class b diabetic. predatespregnancy , per the patient her blood sugars prior to pregnancyranged from the 120-180 range and that she reports she has neverneeded to take insulin. she had a visit at til dr. , burg a rill and wasgiven a glucometer and known fasting sugars ranged from the90s-140s and one hour postprandials ranged from 140-230.4. she is a smoker.5. history of depression. she currently takes remeron and isfollowed by her outpatient psychiatrist with whom she has had alongstanding relationship. given that the remeron was a class cmedication , she was discontinued on that.her past ob history:she had three prior first trimester tabs and two priorsspontaneous vaginal deliveries. her largest baby was 7 pounds 12ounces.gyn history:she has a history of high-grade sil , status post colpo withbiopsies. her last pap was a year ago and within normal limits.past medical history:also , notable for a history of renal stones and migraineheadaches.past surgical history:she had laparoscopic cholecystectomy.medications:her only medication is remeron.allergies:she has no known drug allergies.social history:she smokes approximately seven cigarettes daily.physical examination on admission:her blood pressure is 139/79. she is well appearing. her heartwas regular rate and rhythm. her lungs were clear toauscultation bilaterally. her abdomen was soft and obese. it isdifficult to assess fundal height. pelvic exam had normalmucosa , normal cervix. bimanual exam revealed approximately 22weeks size uterus with audible fetal heart tones.hospital course by system:1. diabetes: given the late time in the day of her appointmentand the inability to establish proper diabetic teaching as anoutpatient , she was admitted for diabetic teaching and control.she had never previously used medications and has had reportedlypoor control with diet. risks of diabetes were discussed. shewas started on a regimen of 14 of n q.a.m. and 14 of n at bedtimewith 6 of humalog premeal as per dr. haggett . her sugars overnightwhile in-house were as follows: 100 fasting , 175 approximatelytwo hours postprandial , 157 and then a fasting of 94 this iswhile receiving that stated insulin regimen. she was seen by thediabetes management service and dr. saunders on 5/10/05 whorecommended increasing her prebreakfast and predinner humalog to8. she will need an ophthalmology consult as an outpatient.hemoglobin a1c was sent and was 5.3.2. hypertension: given her elevated blood pressure of 139/79 inclinic and her history that was notable for potentially alongstanding hypertension , her blood pressure was monitoredclosely and baseline preeclampsia labs were sent. her bloodpressure overnight was within normal limits with values thismorning of 108/60 seated and 90/50 lying. she had a normal bun ,creatinine , alt , ast , and uric acid. a 24-hour urine protein wascompleted during this hospitalization and the results are pendingat the time of this dictation.3. history of depression: her remeron was discontinued and idiscussed her symptoms of depression with her in greater detail.she said that she primarily uses remeron as a sleep aid and themajor side effect she experiences with withdrawal of remeron isnightmares. she does not feel as if she has a problem withdepression and declined a psychiatry consultation while in thehospital. she has an outpatient psychiatrist whom she has alongstanding relationship with. i advised to discuss herpregnancy with her psychiatrist and to be in contact should shehave any concerns. she reported that she always knows if sheneeds additional help and will be in contact with her doctor.4. fetal well-being: baseline and prenatal laboratories weresent on 4/19/05 .  her blood type is b positive. her antibodyscreen was negative. her rpr was nonreactive. her hepatitis bsurface antigen is negative , rubella immune , gonorrhea andchlamydia are negative. she had an ultrasound done on the5/10/05 which revealed a singleton intrauterine gestation. herplacenta was posterior and not previa. she had normal dopplersand normal fetal survey. the fetal risks of uncontrolleddiabetes were discussed and she expressed that she understood allof these concerns.5. cardiac. a baseline ekg was obtained which revealed normalsinus rhythm , normal axis , normal rate , however , her qt-intervalwas slightly prolonged at 491 msec. the upper limit of normal inwomen is 460. i briefly discussed this finding with the medicineconsult service and cardiology service who felt that this islikely attributable to her low potassium of 3.2. therefore , highcontent potassium foods were encouraged and she will have arepeat ekg at her prenatal visit next week to evaluate forresolution of this prolonged qt. of note , she reports that hermother had a congenital heart condition and experienced her firstheart attack at the age of 27 due to what she thought was anenlarged heart. her mother ultimately died at the age of 56 froma heart attack. she reports aside from her mom who she does feelhad this condition since birth; no one in her family hasexperienced sudden cardiac death. she also has never experiencedpalpitations or chest pain.6. history of kidney stones. a urinalysis was sent whichrevealed 1-5 red blood cells and the urine culture showed 10 , 000of mixed flora.discharge instructions:given ms. bruechert strong desire to be discharged after only a dayof admission , she was discharged to home with the followinginstructions:she is to take her fingerstick blood sugars fasting and at onehour postprandial intervals and record them prior to herfollow-up appointment. she is also instructed to eat foods highin potassium and to call the office in an urgent manner shouldshe develop chest pain or palpitations. she has appointmentsscheduled for 6/6/04 with dr. gettys in special ob clinic ,dr. weisse in endocrine clinic and nutrition. she was givenprescriptions for nph to take 14 units subcu a.m. and 14 unitssubcu at bedtime and humalog 8 units prebreakfast , 6 unitsprelunch , and 8 units predinner. she is also advised to takeprenatal vitamins one tablet p.o. daily. she understands allthese follow up plans and has no concerns with her discharge atthis time.escription document: 4-2371336 emsdictated by: kaminer , delattending: graughard , lucasdictation id 0707807d: 5/10/05t: 5/10/05