969652980 | amh | 60849770 | | 945418 | 4/25/1997 12:00:00 am | congestive heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 7/5/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/7/1997principal diagnosis: dilated cardiomyopathy.problem list: 1 ) cardiomyopathy.2 ) status post multiple injuries.3 ) history of hepatitis b.history of present illness: the patient is a 42 year-old gentlemanwith dilated cardiomyopathy withworsening functional status. he was admitted for transplantwork-up , right heart catheterization and optimization of hismedical treatment. he initially developed symptoms approximatelysix years prior to admission with complaints of dyspnea andorthopnea. his chest x-ray at that time demonstrated cardiomegalyand ultimately an echocardiogram demonstrated dilatedcardiomyopathy. in 1992 , a catheterization was performed withclean coronary arteries by report. in february of 1994 , he had a"cerebrovascular accident". he was on coumadin at that time. hissymptoms included right hand and face anesthesia and hemiplegiawhich lasted only a few seconds and were self resolved. a ct wasnegative by report. he was started on coumadin subsequently. infebruary of 1994 , he had an echocardiogram which demonstrated aleft ventricular end diastolic diameter of 6.2 cm and ejectionfraction of 20%. there was no thrombus seen. there was 2+ mitralregurgitation. there were no regional wall motion abnormalities.he was doing fairly well at home with medical management withoutany admissions for congestive heart failure until earlier thisyear. he began to have worsening symptoms following a viralillness in october of 1997. at that time an echocardiogram inoctober of 1997 demonstrated a probably left ventricular thrombusand ejection fraction of 12%. his lasix dose was increased and hisatenolol dose was decreased. he improved and in october of 1997 , hewas able to participate in activities such as sledding and skatingwith only occasional chest pressure and dyspnea on exertion. inoctober of 1997 , an exercise tolerance test was performed which hewent 11 minutes. maximum heart rate was 148. his rate pressureproduct was 18 , 000 and the peak oxygen consumption was 20.4. atthe time nitrates were added to his regimen. his atenolol wasincreased. however , nitrates were discontinued because of headacheand insomnia. now , over the prior one to two months , proceedingadmission , he has had worsening symptoms with orthopnea , dyspnea onminimal exertion with less than one flight of stairs , decreasedappetite. his weight is stable , but it is felt to be a decrease inthe body amount with an increase in fluid weight. he has nocturnalshortness of breath and dyspnea. there is no syncope. he was seenby dr. parker willy and was felt to be at that time a class fouron the thyna 1 , cuse , nebraska 41604 . his lasix was increased and hewas referred for admission.review of systems: positive for orthopnea as well as paroxysmalnocturnal dyspnea four out of seven nights.there is no nocturia. his exercise tolerance is approximately oneflight of stairs with moderate shortness of breath. he complainsof nausea and anorexia without vomiting. he also has insomnia anderectile difficulties. he has a 6 lb. weight loss over the weekprior to admission following an increase in outpatient diureticuse. his baseline weight was 175 lbs. one month ago , it was 165lbs. and the day of admission , it is 155 lbs.past medical history: notable for cardiomyopathy as above , gunshotwound to his chest and head at the age of 14and motor vehicle accident , hepatitis b. he has had fourcolonoscopies in the past and has had no polyps.past surgical history: notable for appendectomy and a ganglioncyst in his right wrist.medications on admission: 1 ) enalapril 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. 2 )atenolol 12.5 mg p.o. q. day. 3 )coumadin 5 mg p.o. q. day. 4 ) lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. 5 )digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q. day. 6 ) kay ciel 10 mg p.o. q. day. 7 )multivitamins one p.o. q. day.allergies: the patient had no known drug allergies.social history: he is a sales representative for a food broker.he lives with his wife and three daughters iny he was a former smoker who quit in 1984. previously , hehad smoked one to two packs per day for twelve years. he continuesto use alcohol and drinks approximately six beers per week.family history: his father is 70 years old. his mother is 68. hehas a sister with colon polyps and a brother whois healthy. his family history is otherwise notable for familialcolon cancer and polyposis.physical examination: vital signs: weight 72 kg , afebrile , heartrate 78 , blood pressure 95/71 , respiratoryrate 18 , oxygen saturation 98% on room air. heent isnormocephalic , atraumatic. oropharynx revealed multiple fillings ,but there is no abnormality. his neck is supple with nothyromegaly , carotid bruits or jugular venous distension. hisjugular venous pressure is 6 cm. his chest is clear. his cardiacexamination is regular rate and rhythm with an s3 as well as rightventricular impulse palpable and audible. his abdomen was soft ,non-tender with normal active bowel sounds. he had no bruits. hisliver is 12-14 cm and 1 cm below the right costal margin. thereare no masses. his extremities were warm and well perfused.neurological examination revealed a mild right facial asymmetry ,but otherwise , his neurological examination is non-focal.laboratory: laboratory evaluation on admission was notable for asodium of 133 , creatinine 1.2. liver function testsare notable for a bilirubin of 1.7 and 0.7. his complete bloodcount is unremarkable. his inr was 1.4. his urinalysis wasunremarkable. pulmonary function tests on admission included anfvc of 81% of predicted and fev1 of 78% of predicted and anfev1/fvc ratio of 97% of predicted. his dlco is 90% of predicted.ekg demonstrated sinus rhythm at 80 with first degreeatrioventricular block. his pr interval is 0.226. his qrsinterval is 0.10 and his qtc is 0.401. there was a left anteriorhemi-block. his axis is -49 degrees. there was left atrialenlargement. there was poor r-wave progression. there wereflipped t-waves across the precordium. there was an increase inleft atrial size since october of 1997 , otherwise no acute changes.hospital course: this is a 42 year-old gentleman with idiopathicdilated cardiomyopathy now presented withworsening functional status over the past few months as well asrecent fluid overload necessitating increase in lasix. there was aquestion of patient non-compliance especially given his currentalcohol use which raises the question of psychologic readiness forcardiac transplant at this time. following admission , the patientunderwent a right heart catheterization which demonstrated rightatrial pressure of 7 , right ventricular pressure of 55/12 , papressures of 58/32 , mean wedge pressure of 30 , arterial pressure atthe time was 113/74 with a mean of 90. additionally , by fick , hiscardiac output was 2.85 with a cardiac index of 1.49 , pulmonaryvenous resistance of 280 and a systemic venous resistance of 2 , 330.because of this markedly high svr and a borderline pvr , he wasstarted on intravenous nitrates with intravenous nitroprusside witha significant decrease in his svr as well as his pa pressures.this was felt to be a significant enough reduction in his pressuresto suggest that he would be a successful transplant candidate.therefore , he was transitioned to oral nitrates and started onisordil by mouth. however , he developed intolerance to nitrateswith severe headaches and ultimately all nitrates werediscontinued. he was subsequently managed only on afterloadreduction. his analopril was held and he was started on captoprilwhich was titrated up with good maintenance of his decrease inpressure. additionally , he was started on losartan for furtherafterload reduction which he tolerated well without orthostaticsymptoms. his lasix was gradually increased and he continued tohave quite a significant improvement symptomatically with nofurther orthopnea in the hospital. further parts of the cardiactransplant work-up were undertaken including ppd and controls whichwere placed. there was no reaction to either ppds or controls at72 hours. he had a b12 and folate level drawn which were withinnormal limits. his thyroid function test demonstrated a tsh of 1.9and all other parameters were within normal limits. digoxin levelon discharge was maintained in a therapeutic range. hepatitispanel was sent and he was negative for hepatitis b antigen orantibody as well as hepatitis c antibodies. 24 hour urinecollection was obtained for creatinine and his creatinine clearancewas at 88 at 24 hours. pulmonary function tests were as notedabove. he was seen by dental consult and was felt to have a fewminor restorative needs which could be taken care of by hisoutpatient dentist , but he was dentally cleared otherwise for atransplant. subsequent to his medical changes and his transplantwork-up , he was restarted on his coumadin and was discharged whenhis inr had become greater than 2 with a target range of 2 to 2.5planned. echocardiogram was performed on october , 1997 whichdemonstrated 1+ tricuspid regurgitation , 2+ mitral regurgitation ,severely dilated left ventricle with an ejection fraction of 20%.there was diffuse severe hypokinesis and apical akinesis. therewas evidence of echo contrast within the left ventricle suggestinga clot. there was moderate left atrial enlargement.condition on discharge: the patient was discharged in stablecondition. he was markedly improved froma symptomatic point of view on discharge.follow-up: the patient is to follow-up with dr. royce mcumber inthe tho medical centermedications on discharge: 1 ) captopril 75 mg p.o. q.i.d. 2 )potassium slow release 10 meq p.o. q.day. 3 ) lasix 80 mg p.o. q. day. 4 ) multivitamins one p.o. q.day. 5 ) coumadin 5 mg p.o. q. day. 6 ) losartan 15 mg p.o. q.day. 7 ) digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q. day on even days and 0.125 mgp.o. q. day on odd days.disposition: the patient was discharged to home.dictated by: lamar hoysock , m.d.attending: kip r. mccamant , m.d. wiap033/9930batch: 20003 index no. jimx3i2qag d: 4/4/97t: 10/10/97