068218051 | tsmc | 62059006 | | 0417105 | 10/15/2006 12:00:00 am | ho evaluation | | dis | admission date: 11/28/2006 report status:discharge date: 2/10/2006 final discharge orders orbin , earle b 298-51-62-5bend uxcallconservice: ggidischarge patient on: 6/21/06 at 09:00 amcontingent upon not applicablewill d/c order be used as the d/c summary: yesattending: blando , bruce n. , m.d.disposition: home w/ servicesdischarge medications:albuterol inhaler 2 puff inh qidprn shortness of breath , wheezinglantus ( insulin glargine ) 60 units sc dailystarting today ( 1/25 ) hold if: nporoxicet oral solution ( oxycodone+apap liquid )5-10 milliliters po q4h prn painzantac syrup ( ranitidine hcl syrup ) 150 mg po bidactigall ( ursodiol ) 300 mg po bidinstructions: if gallbladder still in- start taking 2weeks after dischargelevaquin ( levofloxacin ) 500 mg po dailyfood/drug interaction instructionadminister iron products a minimum of 2 hours before orafter a levofloxacin or ciprofloxacin dose doseif on tube feeds , please cycle ( hold 1 hr before to 2 hrafter ) take 2 hours before or 2 hours after dairy products.alert overridden: override added on 6/21/06 by :potentially serious interaction: prochlorperazine &levofloxacin reason for override: awarediet: stage ii bypass dietactivity: walking as toleratedfollow up appointment( s ):please call dr. machesky immediately to schedule follow-up appiontment ,please follow-up with primary care doctor for blood sugar check ,allergy: nkaadmit diagnosis:morbid obesityprincipal discharge diagnosis ;responsible after study for causing admission )ho evaluationother diagnosis;conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment/staynoneoperations and procedures:laparoscopic roux-en-y gastric bypassother treatments/procedures ( not in o.r. )nonebrief resume of hospital course:patient was admitted to the toott hospital surgery service after undergoinglrygb. no concerning intraoperative events occurred; please see dictatedoperative note for details. patient was transferred to the floor fromthe pacu in stable condition. patient had adequate pain control and noissues overnight into pod1. the patient had an ugi on pod1 that wasnegative for obstruction or leak , at that time was started on a stage idiet which was tolerated well. the following day the patient was startedon a stage ii diet that was tolerated as well , but patientinitially struggled to have adequate intake. incision erytematous , withserous discharge by pod 2 requiring multiple but decreasing dressingchanges. continueddressing wound , dsd with improvement. sugars remained high in 200'sduring admission. pt seen by endocrine service and sugars finallyimproving with lantus 60 sc hs. she also had some difficultieswith urination on pod4 and required a foley catheter for about a day. herfoley was d/c'd the am before she was d/c'd and she urinated withoutincident. patient was noted to have a uti at discharge and was started onthree day course of levaquin. remainder of hospital courseunremarkable , and thepateint was discharged in stable condition , tolerating stage ii diet well ,ambulating , voidingindependently , and with adequate pain control. the patient was givenexplicit instructions to follow-up in clinic with dr. truglia in 1-2 weeks.pt sent home with vna for wound checks and close sugar control withinstructions to f/u with leland bredeson by phone and record fingersticks.she should f/u with her pcp if she has further probelms with urination.additional comments: -you may shower , but do not bathe , swim or otherwise immerse yourincision.-do not lift anything heavier than a phone book.-do not drive or drink alcohol while taking narcotic pain medication.-resume all of your home medications.-if you have fevers > 101.5 f , vomiting , or increased redness , swelling ,or discharge from your incision , call your doctor or go to the nearestemergency room.-vna: please check blood sugar daily and call results into mddischarge condition: stableto do/plan:no dictated summaryentered by: lemme , cristobal r. , m.d. ( rd060 ) 6/21/06 @ 10 end of discharge orders 