record #727615022039090 | fsh | 34853160 | | 783741 | 10/2/1999 12:00:00 am | cholecystitis | signed | dis | admission date: 9/30/1999 report status: signeddischarge date: 8/27/1999discharge diagnosis: ( 1 ) chololithiasis. ( 2 ) coronary arterydisease.history of present illness: mr. cocker is a 68-year-old spanishspeaking man with a known history ofcoronary artery disease , who was in his usual state of health untilnovember , 1999 when he began to developed right upper quadrant pain ,and was seen by his primary care physician and sent to theemergency room with a diagnosis of possible early acutecholecystitis. the patient was admitted to the surgical service atxole medical center , but managed medically without aoperative procedure with antibiotics including ampicillin ,gentamicin , and flagyl. the quality of the patient's right upperquadrant pain was noted as sharp and constant with nausea but novomiting , fevers , chills , back pain , or urinary symptoms. the painlasted several hours postprandially and had no radiation. inaddition , the patient denies chest pain or shortness of breath.past medical history: ( 1 ) coronary artery disease.( 2 ) hypertension. ( 3 ) diabetes.( 4 ) hyperlipidemia. ( 5 ) history of posterior thoracic abscess ,removed in may 1995. ( 6 ) history of scrotal abscess withnecrotizing fasciitis in 1992.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications: ( 1 ) aspirin 325 milligrams p.o. q.d. ( 2 ) lisinopril40 milligrams q.d. ( 3 ) mevacor 40 milligrams q.d.( 4 ) insulin nph subcutaneous 50 units q.a.m. ( 5 ) regularinsulin subcutaneous 10 units q.a.m. ( 6 ) nitroglycerin sublingualp.r.n. chest pain. ( 7 ) atenolol 50 milligrams q.d.social history: the patient lives with his wife , and has smokedone and one-half packs per day for 34 years. hehas minimal alcohol use and , in fact , has not drank alcohol since1984.family history: the patient has a family history of hypertension.physical examination: vital signs: temperature 97.7. pulse 52.blood pressure 98/98. respirations 18.heent: anicteric. oropharynx clear. no bruits. lungs: lungsare clear to auscultation. cardiovascular: cardiac examinationregular rhythm. normal s1 , s2. no murmurs , rubs , or gallops.back: back has no costovertebral angle tenderness. no spinaltenderness. abdomen: obese with positive bowel sounds. rightupper quadrant tenderness and guarding but no rebound , and nomurphy's sign. extremities: no cyanosis , clubbing or edema.neurological: examination was intact.laboratory data: sodium 142 , potassium 4.1 , co2 102 , bicarbonate30 , bun 15 , creatinine 1.0 , glucose 247. wbc at11.2 , hematocrit 41.2 , platelets 258. alt 122 , ast 172 , alkalinephosphatase 211 , total bilirubin 0.7 , direct bilirubin 0.2.amylase 38 , albumin 3.7 , calcium 9.2 , phosphate 3.0. urinalysiswas negative.diagnostic studies: electrocardiogram normal sinus rhythm at 62with no signs of acute ischemia.chest x-ray is clear.hospital course ( by system ): ( 1 ) gastrointestinal: the patientwas admitted to the surgical servicefor , likely , cholecystis , and managed medically. he was maden.p.o. , and hydrated with intravenous fluids and started on tripleantibiotics including ampicillin , gentamicin , and flagyl. thepatient remained afebrile with a normal white blood countthroughout his hospital course on the surgical service. however ,his alkaline phosphatase and total bilirubin became elevated andthe gastroenterology medical service was consulted forconsideration of ercp. the patient then underwent ercp on january , 1999 , where a distal common bile duct stone was noted , and anattempt at removal of the stone was made. however , the stone couldnot be extracted. therefore , the procedure was aborted , and thepatient was transferred to the medical service for furthermanagement. the patient's liver function tests remained stableafter the attempt of the common bile duct stone removal , and hecontinued to remain pain free and afebrile. given the observationof a common bile duct stone , the gi service thought it appropriateto take the patient back for repeat ercp two days later. repeatercp showed that there was no residual stone , and no additionalstones were noted. the patient was then advanced on hisdiet , which he tolerated with no further symptoms. the patientcontinued to be followed by the surgical service who recommended ,then , an elective cholecystectomy as an outpatient at a later date.( 2 ) cardiovascular: given the patient's history of coronary arterydisease , a cardiology consult was obtained by the surgical service ,who then continued to follow the patient once he was transferred tothe medical service. preoperative evaluation for possiblecholecystectomy was performed , and it was noted that the patient'scoronary artery disease included the following history: thepatient had a coronary catheterization in 1995 , which revealed a 30percent left anterior descending artery , proximal as well as midstenosis , as well clean circumflex , 70 to 90 percent obtusemarginal lesion , and a 40 percent , 40 percent , and 70 percentserial right coronary artery lesions , as well as a 70 percentposterior descending artery lesion. at that time , obtuse marginalangioplasty was performed. an left ventriculogram revealed anejection fraction of 69 percent at the time. in march 1996 , thepatient had an exercise tolerance test , in which the patient wentsix minutes and 30 seconds with 1 millimeter st depressions , whichwere highly predictive of ischemia , but the patient had nosymptoms , and he refused intervention at that time.the cardiology consult concluded that given the patient's historyof coronary artery disease , a recommendation was made to perform anuclear imaging study to assess the patient's ischemic risk for acholecystectomy. an exercise tolerance test mibi was performed , inwhich the patient had a good work load. however , moderate tosevere inferoapical ischemia was noted on mibi images. given theurgent need for ercp during this hospital course , catheterizationwas postponed , and the patient remained chest pain free and symptomfree throughout his hospital course from a cardiology perspective.he was continued on medications , which included lopressor ,lisinopril , and diltiazem. persistent hypertension was controlledby increasing the dose of beta blocker with good response. aspirinwas held secondary to consideration of ercp and the possibility ofgastrointestinal bleed. given that the patient remained symptomfree from a cardiac standpoint , cardiology consult decided that thepatient's cardiac catheterization would be deferred until afterthis hospitalization , in light of the possible complications ofadding a tb3a antagonist during percutaneous transluminal coronaryangioplasty in the context of possible ercp. therefore , thepatient will be followed up in cardiology for electivecatheterization.( 3 ) endocrine: the patient's diabetes was well controlled with hisinsulin regimen , which was held while he was n.p.o. , as well as onan insulin sliding scale.( 4 ) infectious disease: the patient remained afebrile throughouthis hospital course , but was continued on ampicillin , gentamicin ,and flagly per surgery recommendations.discharge medications: ( 1 ) aspirin 325 milligrams p.o. q.d.( 2 ) nph insulin subcutaneous 50 unitsq.a.m. ( 3 ) regular insulin subcutaneous 10 units q.a.m.( 4 ) lisinopril 40 milligrams p.o. q.d. ( 5 ) nitroglycerin 1 tabletsublingual q.5 minutes times three p.r.n. chest pain.( 6 ) procardia xl 90 milligrams p.o. q.d. ( 7 ) atenolol 50milligrams p.o. q.d.discharge activity: as tolerated.discharge diet: ada 2 , 000 calories per day , low saturated fat ,low cholesterol diet.follow up: the patient will follow up with the surgery clinic forscheduling of elective cholecystectomy on march ,1999 , as well as follow up with cardiology for an electivecatheterization.dictated by: solomon wanke , m.d.attending: alonso mcalevy , m.d. nc02op991/4768batch: 23031 index no. iksaih98ah d: 9/26/99t: 6/24/99[report_end]