093101677 | tmc | 50028262 | | 7377730 | 9/11/2006 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 9/11/2006 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: linahan , omer m.d.principle admission diagnosis: bacteremia , peri-sepsis andapnea.principle discharge diagnosis: bacteremia , peri-sepsis andapnea , as well as failure to tolerate p.o. diets.history of present illness: he is an 81-year-old man primarilyrussian-speaking , with a history of multiple medical problemsincluding coronary artery disease status post an mi in 2004 aswell as a cath at the same time with percutaneous intervention ,congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction of 45-50% ,atrial fibrillation on anticoagulation and a partial pacemakerfor sick sinus syndrome , multiple strokes x4 , diabetes mellitustype 2 and copd , who was recently admitted to the ghampemaw a hospital forbacteremia with streptococcus oralis without a clear source. hiswhite blood cell count had increased to 20. his inr had beensupratherapeutic on admission at that time to 14. at that time ,he had had a transesophageal echocardiogram which did not showany vegetations and he was discharged to rehab on 3/15/06 with acourse of iv penicillin through a picc line , as well as oralflagyl empirically for an elevated white count. at the rehabfacility where he was placed , the patient was found to havepulled his picc line and the patient was complaining of beingshort of breath and having some mental status changes. he wastreated with some sublingual nitroglycerin at the outsidefacility and brought to the ellwis medical center emergency room , where a chestx-ray showed some lack of the picc line and the short of breathquickly improved in the emergency room. he was , however ,lethargic and then at times , apneic in the emergency room. a gaswas performed which showed respiratory alkalosis with a ph of7.5 , a pco2 of 34 and a pao2 of 135. the patient then becameslightly hypotensive with systolic blood pressures to the 90s ,was given iv fluid boluses as well as treated empirically withvancomycin and ceftazidime , to which his blood pressure respondedby going up to around 100-110/60. given his apnea , a cpap wasinitiated in the emergency department and his oxygenation issuesquickly resolved. a head ct was performed , which was negative.a right internal jugular line was placed and gentle rehydrationtherapy according to early goal-directed therapy for peri-sepsiswas initiated , given the presumption of repeat bacteremia andearly sepsis. he was admitted to medicine for furthermanagement.past medical history: coronary artery disease status post mi in2004 and a cath in 2005. he is status post a hip fracture in2005. he has peripheral vascular disease , diabetes , copd but notreported to be on any home oxygenation , dementia , paget disease ,atrial fibrillation , bph , congestive heart failure , ef of 45-50% ,hypertension , diabetes and hypercholesterolemia.medications on admission included the following: glucotrol 10 mgp.o. b.i.d. and lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q. day , metformin 500 mgp.o. t.i.d. , flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. x10 days which was startedon 5/5/06 , sublingual nitroglycerin p.r.n. , nystatin suspensionq.i.d. , zyprexa 2.5 mg p.o. q. h.s. , penicillin g 3 million unitsiv q. 4h x7 days , milk of magnesia , tylenol p.r.n. , dulcolaxp.r.n. , colace p.r.n. , atenolol 50 mg q. day , lipitor 20 mg q.day , senna liquid q. h.s. , flomax 0.4 q. day.allergies: he has no known drug allergies.social history: he has a history of heavy tobacco use. he quit40 years ago. he lives at home with a 24-hour attendant and herarely uses alcohol.family history: noncontributory.admission physical exam notable for the following: histemperature was 95.9 , his heart rate was 60 , his blood pressurewas 110/62. he is satting 98% on a cpap machine. in general , hewas in no acute distress in restraints. his head and neck examwas notable for a supple neck. pupils are equal , round andreactive. his heart demonstrated a regular rate and rhythm. hisjvp was flat. he did not demonstrate any murmurs , rubs , orgallops. his pulmonary exam was clear anteriorly. his abdominalexam was noted for being soft , nontender , and nondistended withpositive bowel sounds and mild tympani. he had good peripheralpulses with trace lower extremity edema. his neuro exam wasnonfocal.operations: during his hospital stay at this time included a pegtube placement which happened on 10/25/06.hospital course by system:1. id: the patient has a history of recent strep oralisbacteremia and leukocytosis. he was afebrile at the time ofadmission; however , given concern for possible early sepsis givenhis blood pressure , he was treated with empiric iv fluids andantibiotics with vancomycin and ceftazidime. his chest x-raylooked like it might have some aspiration and he was treated withan empiric 7-day course of ceptaz and flagyl for aspirationpneumonia. this course was completed earlier in his hospitalstay. he was also initially treated with vancomycin. a picc wasplaced on 8/7/06 for further antibiotic management of hisbacteremia. his vancomycin was switched to iv penicillin andthis will be continued for a full 3-4 week course on 1/15/07. atee was considered unnecessary given the fact that he was goingto be treated anyway with antibiotics for 4 weeks. all blood ,urine , sputum cultures and stool cultures remained no growth todate at the time of discharge.2. pulmonary: as mentioned above , the patient demonstrated someapnea in the emergency department which resolved with cpap;however , given the fact that the patient was a significantaspiration risk , a cpap was considered unnecessary and possiblywould increase the risk of aspiration. pulmonary was consulted ,who felt that the patient was demonstrating cheyne-stokesrespirations secondary to possible chf or history of cvas that hehas had in the past. his abg , as i mentioned above , demonstratedrespiratory alkalosis with a mild metabolic alkalosis as well.his repeat abg showed no significant change , which likelyindicates a chronic process. he did not demonstrate any pes onstudies that were performed here. no pneumonia was noted and thedesaturations that were detected while the patient was sleepingovernight on 15 units o2 sat monitor resolved quickly with 2liters of oxygen by nasal cannula. a plan was made to notreinitiate cpap given the aspiration risk. he was initiallydiuresed mildly with lasix. this was eventually discontinued.the patient should receive nighttime supplemental oxygen ,particularly if he desaturates to less than 90%.3. cardiovascular: the patient is status post an mi , statuspost pci in 2004. his enzymes were negative on this admissionand a repeat ekg was unchanged from previous. the patient wasrestarted on his home doses of aspirin , statin , beta blocker 2pump. the patient's ejection fraction was 45-50% with inferiorwall hypokinesis. hypotension improved on admission , restartedhis beta blocker and his ace inhibitor and iv fluids at the timeof discharge. re the patient's history of a-fib , he was innormal sinus rhythm for the majority of his hospital stay.coumadin was held peri-procedure when he was getting his pegplaced and vitamin k had been administered in view of hissupratherapeutic coumadin. his coumadin should be restarted on2/18/07. of note as well for rhythm issues , the patient waskept on potassium and magnesium scales while in hospital and hehas a partial pacemaker placed for his sick sinus syndrome.4. gi: the patient had a history of constipation. his abdomenwas tympanitic when he first presented. he was given a bowelregimen and has subsequently begun making good solid stool.midway through his hospital course , the patient developed troublewith eating. he had multiple ng tubes placed which he wasself-discontinuing requiring urgent reconsideration of morepermanent feeding tubes. a discussion was held between ourservice and the gi team , who felt that a peg would be useful formanaging this patient's feeding in the future. on 10/1/06 , giendoscopically placed a peg tube for future feeding. nutritionwas consulted and tube feeds were re-initiated that evening.again , his coumadin will be held until 9/14/07 so as to promoteappropriate wound healing around the site of the peg placement.5. heme: the patient had a history of anemia but did notdemonstrate any acute hematocrit drops. his inr on admission was1.9. we had transiently restarted coumadin but he will have torestart that again on 9/14/07 , given the fact that it was heldfor his peg placement. he was continued on iron supplementsduring his hospital stay.6. renal: the patient , as discussed above , has demonstrated arespiratory alkalosis with a mild metabolic alkalosis as well.his creatinine was mildly elevated which is secondary to chronicrenal insufficiency for unclear reasons. his creatinine by thetime of discharge had improved dramatically to 0.7.7. endocrine: the patient's oral hypoglycemics were held duringthis hospital stay. he was started on insulin sliding-scale andlantus. as his feeding has increased and his tube feeds havereached goal , his lantus has had to be titrated up. he iscurrently at 15 units q. p.m. he may need more while at thefacility that he is going to.8. gu: the patient has a history of vesiculous spermatocele orhydrocele , which is going to be followed by urology as anoutpatient. we had held his flomax initially given low bloodpressure but we restarted it during his hospital stay here.9. fen: as mentioned above , the patient is on aspirationprecautions secondary to speech and swallow evaluation that wasconsistent with aspiration. ng tubes were placed multiple timesbut were self-discontinued by the patient. finally , a peg tubewas placed on 3/2 and tube feeds were reinitiated that evening.10: psych: the patient has a history of being mildly agitated.zyprexa was initiated here at home doses of 2.5 mg q. day andthen titrated up to 2.5 mg b.i.d. the patient has responded verynicely to this and is no longer agitated.11. prophylaxis: he was kept on teds and p-boots. coumadin asmentioned above will need to be restarted on 9/14/07 and nexiumwas to continue while he is here.the patient is full code. his contacts include his son ( 755 ) 304-4394 and hillesheim , his daughter ( 041 ) 769-5379.discharge medications: see addendumdischarge physical exam: notable for a temperature of 98.4 tmax , his current is 96.6. his heart rate is in the 90s. hisblood pressure has been stable in the 110-120s/70-80s. hisrespirations have been 18-20 , satting 92-96% on room air. ingeneral , he is in no acute distress. his lungs are with coarsebilateral breath sounds. his rate and rhythm were regularwithout murmurs. his abdomen is soft and nontender with goodbowel sounds. his extremities are without edema.he is to be discharged today , 2/27/06 , to rehabilitation wherethey will focus primarily on his physical therapy and rehabneeds.escription document: 7-3955349 hssten teldictated by: madonna , brandonattending: emmanuel clement crittle , m.d. bx9dictation id 8216959d: 2/27/06t: 2/27/06