record #818720684137177 | yh | 06871035 | | 610745 | 7/2/2000 12:00:00 am | cardiac ischemia | signed | dis | admission date: 9/21/2000 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/27/2000service: general medicine ence t di au oprincipal diagnosis: congestive heart failure.secondary diagnoses: 1. coronary artery disease.2. type ii diabetes.3. hypercholesterolemia.4. chronic low back pain.5. l4-l5 spondylolisthesis.6. abdominal pain.7. constipation.8. anemia.9. peripheral neuropathy.10. gastroparesis.history of present illness: mrs. egelhoff is a 66-year-oldwoman who presented with one week ofincreasing shortness of breath with exertion , increasing peripheraledema , and increasing abdominal distention. she denies any chestpain , palpitations , chest pressure , nausea , vomiting , ordiaphoresis. she thought that her abdominal distention wassecondary to chronic constipation and her last bowel movement wasfour days prior to admission. she felt that her abdominaldistention was contributing to her shortness of breath because shewas unable to take deep breaths. in addition , she has a longhistory of chronic anemia with no clear diagnosis. she denied anymelena or bright red blood per rectum. she also has a long historyof low back pain , so she does not lie flat to sleep. in addition ,she complains of some early satiety. she denies fevers , chills ,chest pain , palpitations , lightheadedness , nausea , vomiting , weightloss , or known weight gain.past medical history: poorly controlled diabetes with intoleranceto humulin insulin ( she believes this madeher retinopathy worse ) , peripheral neuropathy , gastroparesis ,coronary artery disease , peripheral vascular disease , status post aleft femoral popliteal bypass surgery , chronic constipation , carpaltunnel syndrome , history of acinetobacter pneumonia in 1997 ,chronic anemia , charcot foot , status post open reduction internalfixation of a left ankle fracture , status post cholecystectomy ,history of c. difficile colitis , echocardiogram in 1997 revealingleft ventricular hypertrophy and ejection fraction of 55% ,persantine thallium in march of 1994 revealing moderate anteriorischemia in the left anterior descending territory.medications on admission: nph pork insulin , 42 units q.a.m.;lopressor 25 mg b.i.d.; vaseretic10/25 mg q. day; aspirin 325 mg q. day; senokot; niferex 150b.i.d.; diazepam 1 mg p.o. b.i.d.; avandia 4 mg p.o. q. day.allergies: aldomet , procardia , darvocet causes drowsiness ,percocet causes vomiting.social history: she lives alone. her son is involved in hercare. occasionally she lives with him. she doesnot smoke or drink. her husband died of complications of acoronary artery bypass graft about one year prior to admission.physical examination on admission: uncomfortable secondary todistended abdomen. temperature97.3 , heart rate 73 , blood pressure 172/68 , respiratory rate 18 ,96% on room air. her heent exam revealed a clear oropharynx ,nonicteric sclerae. extraocular movements were full. her neck wassupple with 2+ carotid upstrokes and a faint left carotid bruit.jugular venous pressure was difficult to assess secondary to bodyhabitus. she has bibasilar crackles in her lung fields. her heartwas regular rate with a normal s1 and somewhat loud s2. she has nomurmurs , rubs , or gallops. her abdomen was soft , slightlydistended , and obese. she had no shifting dullness and nohepatosplenomegaly. her extremities were remarkable for 2+ pittingedema , right greater than left. she had weak pulses bilaterally ,weaker on the left than the right.laboratory data on admission: sodium 135 , potassium 4.2 ,chloride 95 , bicarb 30 , bun 34 ,creatinine 1.3 , glucose 212 , alt 15 , ast 14 , alkalinephosphatase 76 , total bilirubin 0.4 , ck 53 , troponin i - 0.00 ,albumin 4. white blood cell count 4.9 , hematocrit 28.3 , mcv 86 ,rdw 13.3 , platelets 303. urinalysis revealed 3+ leuk esterase withtrace blood , too numerous to count white blood cells , and 10-15 redblood cells. ekg revealed normal sinus rhythm at 70 beats perminute with normal intervals and axis. she had an isolated q wavein lead iii. she also had t wave inversions in v5 and v6 whichwere unchanged from prior comparison ekg in 1998.hospital course: mrs. genna was initially admitted to theshort stay unit for blood transfusion , workup ofher chronic anemia , and diuresis for new onset congestive heartfailure. on hospital day #2 , she developed what appeared to be a32 beat run of ventricular tachycardia. she was thus transferredto the general medicine service for further management and workup.her hospital course by systems is as follows:1. neurologic. mrs. byfield continued to complain of low backpain which has been a chronic problem and forwhich she is followed by dr. petrocelli in spine clinic here at go tyredd egebrat .  she reports that he has already madearrangements for her to undergo an open mri at the taha memorial hospital , as we do not have these facilities here , andwill follow up with him in clinic after she has this test. in thepast she has had cortisone injections without benefits , and it wasfelt that since she has no acute exacerbation of this chronicproblem and already had followup in place , further consultation wasnot necessary during this hospitalization. she was reinitiated onneurontin 300 mg q.h.s. , then increased to b.i.d. , and to beincreased to t.i.d. as an outpatient. she reports that with thisregimen she finally was able to sleep at night and reports asignificant improvement in her neuropathic pain secondary todiabetic neuropathy as well as sciatica.2. cardiovascular. mrs. sloas was aggressively diuresed forfluid overload in the setting of newcongestive heart failure. she responded well to iv lasix. she hada cardiology consultation , and they determined that the ventriculartachycardia noted on the monitor was actually an artifact and notreal. a long discussion between the patient , her son , and herprimary care doctor was undertaken. mrs. glicken expressed herfervent desire not to undergo cardiac catheterization or coronaryartery bypass grafting because of her husband's traumaticexperience with these procedures. given her reluctance to undergointervention , further diagnostic studies were deferred , such asstress testing. her medical management was further optimized. shewas continued on enteric coated aspirin. her beta blocker dose wasincreased to 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. of atenolol with heart rate control.her ace inhibitor dose was also increased. simvastatin 40 mg p.o.q.h.s. was added for ldl cholesterol of 184. in addition , isordilwas added to her cardiac regimen to decrease preload. she will bedischarged on 160 mg p.o. q. day of lasix. she was told that herdose may change , depending on her daily weights at home , and thisshould be coordinated with the visiting nurse as well as herprimary care doctor.3. gastrointestinal. mrs. jannetti continued to complain ofnonspecific abdominal pain as well asconstipation while in the hospital. she also had a significantbout of nausea and vomiting. she was given an aggressive bowelregimen including enemas , with good response. on 11/27 , becauseof persistent abdominal pain and a somewhat more firm abdomen , akub and upright was performed which was within normal limits. thenext day her pain , nausea , and vomiting had significantly resolvedwith the addition of reglan to her medical regimen for presumeddiabetic gastroparesis.4. endocrine. a hemoglobin a1c was checked during this admissionand was 9.5. because of persistently high morningsugars , 8 units of nph at night was begun in addition to her 45units q.a.m. her blood sugars remained under 200 with thisregimen.5. hematologic. mrs. penington initially presented with a drop inher hematocrit to 28. she was transfused twounits of packed red blood cells with an appropriate increase in herhematocrit. iron studies as well as b12 and folate levels werechecked and were within normal limits. ldh , bilirubin , andhaptoglobin were also within normal limits. her hematocritremained stable throughout the further course of herhospitalization.6. infectious disease. mrs. loparco received a total of threedays of levofloxacin for a urinary tractinfection.7. finally , she was seen both by physical therapy and occupationaltherapy and home referrals were put in place.medications on discharge: enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o.q. day; atenolol 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.;colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.; lasix 160 mg p.o. q. day; lactulose30 cc p.o. b.i.d. , and can increase to q.i.d. as needed; lisinopril40 mg p.o. q. day; reglan 10 mg p.o. q.i.d.; niferex 150 , 150 mgp.o. b.i.d.; senna tablets , two tabs p.o. b.i.d.; simvastatin40 mg p.o. q.h.s.; neurontin 300 mg p.o. b.i.d. x2 days , and thenincrease to 300 mg p.o. t.i.d.; nph insulin ( pork ) 45 units subcuq.a.m. , 8 units subcu q.p.m.; diazepam 1 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n.anxiety; nitroglycerin 1/150 , one tab sublingual q.5min. x3 p.r.n.chest pain; oxycodone 5 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. back pain , not toexceed four tablets per day; motrin 600 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. backpain , not to exceed four tablets per day.condition on discharge: stable.disposition: the patient will be discharged to home with homeservices. she will have visiting nurse to check herblood pressure , heart rate , and breathing status. in addition , shewas instructed to weigh herself each day at home and to recordthose weights. she is to call her primary care doctor if herweight increases by more than 2 pounds , and was told that she wouldlikely be instructed to increase her dose to b.i.d. she will havea chem-7 drawn by the visiting nurse this monday. finally , shewill have both home physical therapy and occupational therapyservices. she should follow up with her primary care doctor ,dr. vbiles , in one to three weeks. she was also instructed tokeep her mri appointment at the tyme tionan medical center of , andthen to see dr. pompei in spine clinic after this test wasperformed.dictated by: cornelius sancher , m.d. re31attending: carl c. finocan , m.d. yl57  kn107/2385batch: 7969 index no. mqfd1p8x40 d: 8/10t: 8/10[report_end]