366552268 | rmc | 60493641 | | 1817575 | 3/28/2005 12:00:00 am | pulmonary embolism | signed | dis | admission date: 8/8/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 8/8/2005attending: lucien kurt dyron mdthis discharge summary summarizes his intensive care unit coursefrom march , 2005 to july , 2005.history of present illness: briefly , mr. adas is a 69-year-oldafrican-american male who is postoperative day 11 from areoperative aortic valve replacement and mitral valve repair forendocarditis. his postoperative course was complicated bymobitz's type ii heart block and long sinuses pauses for which hewas transferred to the icu on account of snow storm makingstaffing issues difficult to take care of him on the floor. heremained in the intensive care unit one day.hospital course: his intensive care unit course by system is:1. neurologic: the patient was complaining of pain at hisquintin catheter insertion site for which he was treated withoxycodone.2. cardiovascular: the patient was initially transferred to theintensive care unit with bradycardia and mobitz's type ii heartblock and 6-7 second sinus pauses. he was asymptomatic for allof these events with good hemodynamics. however , given the largesnow storm and short staffing , it was felt that he would bebetter off in the intensive care unit for closer monitoring. hehad no major issues in the intensive care unit. he was switchedfrom labetalol and amlodipine as well as his beta blocker eyedrops so as to not exacerbate his heart block. he did have somedifficult to control hypertension which was treated withhydralazine which was titrated up to 80 q.i.d. with good result.in addition , he was maintained on losartan and lisinopril. hewas followed by the electrophysiology service who came to theconclusion that the patient does need a permanent pacemaker;however , the issue of when and how to place the pacemaker has yetto be resolved as the patient has difficult venous access issuesgiven his multiple clotted av fistulas and poor venous accesssites. the electrophysiology service and dr. wickert are in theprocess of deciding what the best approach for his pacemaker is.hew as in a sinus rhythm with occasional asymptomatic bradycardiain the 40s but otherwise stable rhythm.3. respiratory: no issues.4. gi: he is on a renal diet which he tolerated. he is also ona bowel regimen and on 2 liter fluid restriction per the renalteam.5. renal: the patient is followed by renal medicine. he isanuric and he is dialyzed saturday , tuesday , thursday. he had noacute renal issues although his potassium was somewhat on thehigh side between 4.8 and 5.0 but trended down by the next day.he was followed by the vascular surgery service who havedetermined that his right av fistula is not salvageable. theyplan to do a left av fistula on an outpatient basis once thepatient's current cardiac issues have resolved and he isdischarged from the hospital.6. endocrine: no issues.7. heme: no issues. the patient is on an aspirin 81 mg a day.8. id: the patient came in to the intensive care unit onvancomycin , gentamicin and rifampin for presumed endocarditisalthough all of his cultures have been negative. he hascontinued on these in the hospital. he is afebrile without awhite count.escription document: 0-3740496 dbssten teldictated by: raitt , van codyattending: sovern , leroy rogerdictation id 7737400d: 6/11/05t: 6/11/05