record #339732785289682 | hcho | 34916218 | | 379854 | 4/3/1999 12:00:00 am | heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 3/1/1999 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/20/1999discharge diagnosis: atrial fibrillation status postcardioversion.history of present illness: the patient is an 38-year-old africanamerican gentleman with a familialdilated cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of approximately20 percent , history of ventricular tachycardia status post aicdplacement , and recurrent atrial fibrillation status post two priorattempts at cardioversion. the patient had also previously beenbegun on amiodarone for chemical cardioversion , however , hedeveloped severe hyperthyroidism. the patient also has had severalrecent admissions for exacerbations of his congestive heartfailure , most recently in february , 1998 when he was admitted fortailored therapy. at that time , an echocardiogram demonstrated anejection fraction of , approximately , 20 percent with atrialdimension of 5 centimeters , left ventricular diastolic dimension of7.7 centimeters , moderate-severe mitral regurgitation , and moderatetricuspid regurgitation with pulmonary artery pressure ofapproximately 40 , plus right atrial pressure. the patient was , atthat time , diuresed to his dry weight , which is approximately 186pounds. unfortunately , he was again admitted in february of 1998with volume overload and was diuresed. at that time , he was notedto be in atrial fibrillation , and was cardioverted on hispreviously implanted aicd.his most recent admission was on march to january , whenhe again was cardioverted by his aicd for atrial fibrillation andtreated for volume overload. in march of 1999 , he had increasingfiring of his aicd both for true ventricular tachycardia , as wellas for atrial fibrillation , and anti-tachycardia pacing. he wasseen in cardiomyopathy clinic on august , and was found to be inatrial fibrillation and volume overloaded. his diuretics wereincreased at that time , as his weight was 207 pounds , and hediuresed down to a weight of 199 pounds. it was felt thatamiodarone would be the best drug for him in terms of management ofhis ventricular and atrial arrhythmias , and so the patientunderwent an elective thyroid ablation with radioactive iodine. hereceived 30 mci of i-131. he now presents today after the thyroidablation for amiodarone load and cardioversion. the patient isfeeling relatively well , and is not experiencing any significantdyspnea on exertion or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. he reports noincreased lower extremity edema. no neck pain. no fever orchills. no nausea or vomiting.past medical history: ( 1 ) notable for dilated cardiomyopathydiagnosed in 1992. his most recent v.02 is19.5 in february of 1995. ( 2 ) aicd placement for ventriculartachycardia in march of 1998. ( 3 ) hyperthyroidism secondary toamiodarone. ( 4 ) history of atrial fibrillation , status postmultiple cardioversions in the past ( see above ). ( 5 ) history of aleft renal infarct. ( 6 ) history of pancreatis.allergies: he is allergic to penicillin.medications: ( 1 ) captopril 75 milligrams q.i.d. ( 2 ) digoxin 0.125milligrams q.d. ( 3 ) isordil 40 milligrams t.i.d.( 4 ) torsemide 200 milligrams b.i.d. ( 5 ) coumadin 5 milligrams q.d.( 6 ) prilosec 20 milligrams b.i.d. ( 7 ) zaroxolyn p.r.n.social history: notable for no tobacco or alcohol use. no historyof intravenous drug use.family history: notable for a father who died of a myocardialinfarction at age 56 , a brother withcardiomyopathy who died in the 50s , and another brother withdilated cardiomyopathy.physical examination: the physical examination was notablefor a jugular venous pressure of 10centimeters. vital signs: the patient was afebrile. pulse was100 to 120. blood pressure was 90/75. lungs: clear toauscultation. cardiovascular: heart rate which is regular ,irregular with s1 and s2 normal , and intermittent s3 , and a ii/viholosystolic murmur best auscultated at the apex radiating to thisaxilla. abdomen: his belly was soft , nontender , nondistended withactive bowel sounds and a palpable liver , approximately , 1.5centimeters below the costal margin , which was pulsatile.extremities: his extremities were warm and well perfused. distalpulses were 2+. there was no edema.laboratory data on admission: bun of 58. creatinine of 2.5.potassium of 3.8. inr of 5.1.hematocrit of 42.8. white count of 8.5.diagnostic studies: his electrocardiogram was notable for atrialfibrillation of , approximately , 120 with azero degree axis and an intraventricular conduction delay; r-waveprogression was poor. he had st-t wave changes consistent withdigitalis effect. there was no change in this cardiogram comparedto the one in february of 1998.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the cardiologyservice , and an amiodarone load was initiated at400 milligrams four times a day. endocrinologist service wasconsulted and followed along status post his ablation. the patientwas felt to be euvolemic and slightly hypovolemic upon hisadmission , and his diuretics were reduced to 100 twice a day oftorsemide. after approximately 36 hours with a slightliberalization of his fluid intake , the patient normalized , and hebecame slight hypervolemic. at that time , his diuretic regimen wasreturned to his normal outpatient dose of 200 twice a day , and hereceived an extra dose of intravenous torsemide. on the third ofhospitalization , january , 1999 , the patient was cardioverted byhis icd with 30 joules of synchronous shock , which turned thepatient to sinus rhythm. at this point , he had received three daysof amiodarone at 400 milligrams four times a day. during thisamiodarone load , the patient became markedly nauseated withepisodes of vomiting. it was also noted that he developed somedecreased blood pressure while on the amiodarone attributed to thenegative inotropic effects of the drug. his normal medicationswere intermittently held for hypertension , and the patient , attimes , appeared to be quite unwell during his amiodarone load ,feeling nauseated and relatively hypertensive. however , after thepatient's medicines were given , he returned to a normal bloodpressure and felt well.the patient was successfully cardioverted to normal sinus rhythm onjanuary . he will be discharged on amiodarone dose formaintenance now that his load has been completed. his thyroidfunction tests were checked in house subsequent to his ablation ,and they were notable for a t4 level of 9.6. he is to have histhyroid function tests rechecked in , approximately , three weeks andhe will be followed in the endocrine clinic as well at that time.he also is to initiate therapy with tapazole 10 milligrams a day toprotect the patient from developing hyperthyroidism in the settingof his amiodarone. the patient's dose of coumadin was also held inhouse as his inr was elevated. it had fallen to a level of 3.0 onthe day of discharge , and he was discharged on a lower dose ofcoumadin to be adjusted as an outpatient by the anticoagulationteam.the patient's renal function returned to baseline , approximately ,24 hours after admission when he returned to a euvolemic state.his slightly elevated creatinine was attributed to pre-renaldehydration. his creatinine on the day of discharge was 1.6 , andhis baseline is , approximately , 1.6 to 2.0. his baselineinsufficiency can be attributed to poor forward flow.discharge medications: ( 1 ) captopril 75 milligrams q.i.d.( 2 ) digoxin 0.125 milligrams q.d.( 3 ) isordil 40 milligrams t.i.d. ( 4 ) amiodarone 200 milligramsb.i.d. ( 5 ) torsemide 200 milligrams b.i.d. ( 6 ) prilosec 20milligrams bid ( 7 ) tapazole 10 milligrams q.d. to begin on monday.( 8 ) k-dur as per his outpatient medicines. ( 9 ) coumadin3 milligrams q.d. to be adjusted as an outpatient.follow up: the patient will return to the mowe memorial hospitalhospital early next week to have his electrolytes andinr checked. he will return in , approximately , three weeks tohave thyroid function tests checked , as previously stated. he hasfollow up appointments in both cardiomyopathy clinic and endocrineclinic , and close follow up with the cardiomyopathy and transplantteam.dictated by: roland jonah , m.d. da97attending: grover l. spero , m.d. xp1nn826/3312batch: 25934 index no. bdpquy79m4 d: 6/19/99t: 6/19/99[report_end]