196452947 | nchh | 56700165 | | 142255 | 7/16/1995 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/6/1995 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/12/1995chief complaint: slurred speech and right sided weaknesshistory of present illness: the patient is a 58 year old righthanded female with a history ofhypertension who was in her usual state of health until 10 a.m.when she noted , while in a seated position , after bending over topick up articles from the floor , had a sudden headache described asa bifrontal burning sensation. afterwards , she noted mucus fromthe nose which lasted two to three minutes. she thought it was a"sinus headache". over the next half hour , she noticed whiletalking to her self , she had some slurred speech. she attempted towalk and found that the right side of her body felt "wobbly" and itwas difficult to walk but she was able to walk into the kitchen andget a glass of water. the slurred speech and right side bodyweakness lasted for approximately one hour and improved until"normal levels".for approximately five to six hours later , the slurred speechreturned and family members who arrived that her face was twistedand she had slurred speech , and that she had to lift her right legup with her hands in order to get into the car. she ultimated thatwith the first event , she had headache and nausea only with thesecond event. she denied any vomiting or light headedness ordizziness. there was no visual change such as diplopia.past medical history: occasional lower back pain and right footsurgery secondary to trauma. medication:hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg p.o. q day. allergies; no known drugallergies.social history: tobacco; ten pack year history. there isno history of alcohol or intravenous drugabuse. the patient has three children , one son , two daughters , andshe is currently married. she is currently unemployed and has asixth grade education. she grew up in sonfordfamily history: there is a positive family history of astroke in her father.physical examination: the patient appeared stated age. vitalsigns showed a blood pressure of 158/108 ,temperature of 98.2 , heart rate of 88 , respiratory rate 16. theneck was supple with meningismus. the lungs were clear. the heartshowed a regular rate and rhythm without murmur. the abdomen wasbenign. the extremities showed no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema.on neurologic examination the patient was awake , alert , andoriented times three , attention with difficulty with days of theweek , and month of the year. speech was spontaneous and fluentwith dysarthria. the patient refused to read or write. she hasnormal naming repetition , and comprehension. there was no right orleft confusion. calculation was poor , believed to be secondary toher poor educational status. the cranial nerves not tested. thebilateral visual fields were full , discs were sharp , fundus clear ,pupils 4 mm reactive bilaterally to light and accommodation , andwere consentual. there was positive nystagmus on right gaze. shehas normal facial sensation with a right facial paresis in theupper motor neuron distribution. she had normal palate and uvula.sternocleidomastoids were strong. the tongue was midline. onmotor examination the patient had mild increased tone of her rightbody , no tremor and a positive drift of the right upper extremity.strength of the left upper and lower extremities displayed 5/5strength in all major muscle groups. the left upper extremity hadupper motor neuron distribution weakness with decreased strengthand upper extremity extensors with strength being 4 minus of thelower extremity with decreased flexor strength with ehl being 4minus also. the deep tendon reflexes were slightly more brisk onthe right with 2+ with out going right toe. the left upperextremity and right lower extremity were 2 and toe down going.sensory exam was normal to light touch and pin prick , temperature ,position , and normal double simultaneous stimulation.coordination; the patient has normal finger to nose , heel to shin ,and the right was not out of proportion to the weakness. gait wasremarkable for decreased swing , positive for circumduction on theright and romberg was negative.laboratory data; sodium 141 , potassium 3.6 , chloride 98 ,bicarb 26 , bun and creatinine 9 and 0.6respectively , glucose 104 , white count 7.3 , hematocrit 45.2 ,hemoglobin 14.3 , platelets 250 , pt 12.9 , ptt 38.8 , mcv 86.4. ct ofthe brain was negative for any mass lesions noted; no shift , nohemorrhage , no lacune. electrocardiogram showed normal sinusrhythm , 75; large left atrium with normal axis and intervals; nost-t wave changes.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the neurologyservice and started on one aspirin perday. the patient was then ordered to have a cardiac echocardiogramand mri of the head. throughout her hospital course her clinicalsymptoms improved tremendously , and the patient proved that she was90% of her baseline. mri was remarkable for small pontine lacunainfarct on the left which corresponds highly with the patient'sclinical examination. a cardiac echocardiogram was normal. mraalso showed small common carotid disease which will be followed upwith carotid doppler ultrasound as an outpatient.disposition: the patient was discharged to home.condition on discharge: improved.discharge medications: hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg p.o. q day ,aspirin 1 tablet p.o. q day. the patient is to follow up withmyself in one month and to follow up with her primary carephysician in two or three weeks. the patient is to have cardiacdoppler study of her neck on august , 1995 at 9:30 a.m. and she wasadvised to call for any problems or concerns regarding anycomponent of her health care.final diagnosis: 1. left pontine stroke2. hypertensiondictated by: kasey d. naumann , m.d. ep17attending: oliver joan sonka , m.d. aw5ne467/2874batch: 7255 index no. wwocns610x d: 7/21/95t: 4/11/95