123637959 | hmmc | 70326786 | | 335638 | 10/10/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 11/22/1994 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/28/1994principal diagnosis: 1. right-sided cerebrovascular accident.other diagnoses: 1. type ii diabetes.2. hypertension.3. right shoulder pain.4. hook worm enteritis.history of present illness: the patient is a 63 year-old hispanicman with a history of a left-sidedcerebrovascular accident , with a dense right hemiparesis , whopresented to the emergency room at villera hospital medical center on17 of september , complaining of left-sided facial numbness , and left upperextremity numbness since awakening that morning. the patient has ahistory of non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , hypertensionand hyperlipidemia , as well as a past history of a left hemisphericstroke with a right-sided hemiparesis , who awoke the morning ofadmission with left lip numbness. over the subsequent few hours ,the patient's numbness progressed to include the entire leftone-half of his face. by 10 o'clock in the morning , his entireleft arm was also numb. his left lower extremity was alsoinvolved. in the emergency room , an ekg was done , and revealedsubtle st segment depressions in leads ii , and v4 through v6 , aswell as .5 mm of st depression in lead i. there were no comparisonekgs available. the patient denied any chest pain , shortness ofbreath , nausea , vomiting or diaphoresis. given his history ofmyocardial infarction that he states may have occurred in the past ,as well as numerous coronary risk factors , he was admitted for ruleout of myocardial infarction and evaluation of his left-sidednumbness.medications on admission: included procardia xl 30 mg p.o. q.d. ,glyburide 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , dyazide.past medical history: significant for: ( 1 ) left-sidedcerebrovascular accident in 1989. ( 2 )hypertension. ( 3 ) chronic right upper extremity pain after hisinitial cerebrovascular accident. ( 4 ) type ii diabetes.allergies: penicillin , with unknown reaction.social history: the patient is a resident of et ,call eansirancea . he denies alcohol or tobacco use.physical examination: the patient was a thin , hispanic male in noacute distress , and pleasant. his vitalsigns were: blood pressure 150/88 , with a pulse of 86 , and arespiratory rate of 20. his saturation was 96% on room air. histemperature was 98.4. heent: pupils equal , round , reactive tolight and accommodation; extraocular muscles intact. pharynx wasclear. neck was supple without adenopathy. there was no increasedjugular venous pressure. lungs were clear to auscultationbilaterally , with the exception of mild bibasilar crackles.cardiac exam showed regular rate and rhythm with a ii/vi systolicejection murmur at the left lower sternal border , with radiation tothe left axilla. abdomen was soft , non-tender , with positive bowelsounds. extremities were without cyanosis , clubbing or edema.there were no cords and no homan's sign was present. onneurological exam , the patient showed cranial nerves ii through xiigrossly intact. the patient did , however , have loss of the rightshoulder shrug. on motor exam , the patient was 5/5 in all majormuscle groups on the left-hand side , and 4/5 in all major musclegroups on the right-hand side. the patient was also somewhathyperreflexic on the right upper and lower extremities. babinskiwas down going on the right , and withdrawal on the left. onsensory exam , the patient had decreased pin prick on the leftaspect of the fact , from v1 to v3 , and numbness of the left upperextremity. light touch was intact bilaterally. proprioception wasalso intact bilaterally.laboratory data ( on admission ): included a potassium of 3.4 , a bunof 13 , a creatinine of 0.8 , aglucose of 226. his white blood cell count was 6.3; his hematocritwas 44.9 , and his platelet count was 196. ast and alt were 21 and31 , respectively. ldh was 155. total bilirubin was 0.5.cholesterol was 201. calcium was 10.2 , with an albumin of 4.7.ekg demonstrated normal sinus rhythm at 75 , with .5 mm of stsegment depression in lead i , and 1 mm of st depression in leads iiand v4 through v6. chest x-ray was clear bilaterally. there wascardiomegaly present. there was question of a left lower lobeopacity. there were no signs of congestive heart failure. head ctwithout contrast showed an old left centrum semiovale lesion ,consistent with with a watershed infarct. there was no evidence ofacute bleed.hospital course: the patient is a 63 year-old hispanic male withthe following important medical issues to bemanaged:( 1 ) cardiovascular. the patient presented without chest pain , butekg changes , including .5 mm of st segment depression in lead i ,and 1 mm of st segment depression in leads ii , and v4 through v6.there was no prior ekg for comparison. given his multiple cardiacrisk factors , a decision was made to rule the patient out formyocardial infarction. his serial creatinine kinase levels were67/74/115. given the low levels , there was no mb fractionationdone. the patient also was placed on holter monitor to attempt torule out a dysrhythmic etiology of his deficit. holter showedpredominantly a normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 442 to 98. therewere 7 atrial premature beats , and 5 ventricular premature beats ,as well as a 12-beat run of supraventricular tachycardia at a rateof 125 , and a 6-beat run of ventricular tachycardia at 144. all ofthese were asymptomatic. the patient underwent transthoracicechocardiography while an inpatient , to rule out a vegetativesource of emboli , which may have resulted in his change insensation. echocardiogram demonstrated concentric left ventricularhypertrophy with an ejection fraction of 65%. there was athickened aortic leaflet with calcification of the right and leftcoronary cusps of the aortic valve. no shunt was visualized. thepatient had no occurrence of chest pain or shortness of breathwhile admitted to the louili mi hospital . these eventswere thought to be entirely non-cardiac in nature , and he wasremoved from telemetry. the patient's hypertension was managedwith nifedipine 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. during this admission , andswitched to 30 mg of nifedipine xl p.o. q.d. as an outpatient. hisblood pressure should be followed as an outpatient , and additionsand adjustments made accordingly.( 2 ) neurologic. the patient was admitted with what appeared to bea purse sensory defect of the right hemisphere , resulting in leftfacial and upper extremity numbness. he was seen in consultationby the neurology service. ct scan of the head without contrast inthe emergency room was negative for acute bleed. in the emergencyroom , the patient received one enteric coated aspirin , and he wasnot started on intravenous heparinization. it was unclear ,initially , whether the etiology of this patient's change inneurological status was secondary to embolic phenomena or possiblya second watershed infarct. given his negative echocardiogram ofthe heart , as well as a negative holter monitor , it was thoughtthat the etiology of this patient's left-sided facial numbness wasnot cardiac in nature. it was the feeling of the neurology servicethat the patient had experienced a right-sided subcortical infarct ,probably in the right thalamus region. he was also noted to haverisk factors for small vessel disease , including hypertension anddiabetes. his numbness appeared to be resolving on aspirin alone;however , on the second day of admission , the patient began todevelop dysarthria. there was concern that the patient was havingan evolving cerebrovascular accident that was involving thebrainstem , given tongue involvement. he was thus started onintravenous heparinization. his dysarthria promptly resolved. heunderwent mri with and without contrast of the head , three daysafter the initial event , which demonstrated only right-sided smallvessel disease. there was no evidence of acute bleed or underlyingvascular abnormality. given the small vessel disease in thispatient , he was taken off intravenous heparin and continued on oneaspirin a day. he did well during the remainder of his stay. hewas seen in consultation by physical therapy and occupationaltherapy , who , in conjunction with the patient's family , believedthat he was at a somewhat decreased level of functioning from hisbaseline , given his sensory changes. he is thus to be sent forinpatient rehabilitation for his new cerebrovascular accident , andthen to be followed as an outpatient in dr. lacrosse 's clinic. hewill continue on one aspirin a day for life. his right-sidedscapular and shoulder pain is chronic , after sustaining his initialleft-sided cerebrovascular accident. it should be treated withphysical therapy , including ultrasound and stretching maneuvers.the patient was also placed on naproxen for pain relief.muscle relaxants may be tried as an outpatient if the above statedefforts do not help reduce this patient's pain.( 3 ) infectious disease. this patient had no infectiouscomplications while hospitalized. he was , however , found to have aslight peripheral eosinophilia during this admission , and wasevaluated by o&p of the stool. stool evaluation showed moderatehook worm eggs , as well as rare trichuris trichiura eggs. he wastreated with three days of mebendazole.( 4 ) endocrine. the patient has a history of type ii diabetes , ondiabeta. the patient's blood glucose levels were checked by fingerstick four times daily , and were in the 190's to 240's range duringthis admission. he was covered with a czi sliding scale of regularinsulin. the patient was advised by dietary on the americandiabetic association diet. he is to continue as an outpatient onglyburide 5 mg p.o. b.i.d.medications on discharge: enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.;colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.; glyburide 5mg p.o. b.i.d.; naprosyn 375 mg p.o. b.i.d. , with meals; nifedipinexl 30 mg p.o. q.d.; sublingual nitroglycerin 1/150 , one tabletsublingually q.5 minutes times three , then call m.d.condition on discharge: good.disposition: the patient was discharged on 19 of july torehabilitation at sco hospital .follow up: he is to follow up in clinic with dr. hiers in een medical center ,at his first available appointment.complications: there were no complications during this stay.dictated by: sam minalga , m.d.attending: edmond h. judie , m.d. aj69co618/5087batch: 817 index no. otbk76446m d: 4/16/94t: 4/16/94cc: usri memorial hospital health center