record date: 2085-05-11name:    justus, quianamrn:       9814048quiana is a 73-year-old woman with hypertension, diabetes and spinal stenosis whocomes in for a physical.  she has spinal stenosis as documented by her prior mri's. she can usually walk about 5 minutes and then develops pain in her thighs andcalves.  she has some knee pain with walking, but it is not consistent and does notoccur after short 5-minute distances.  the thigh and calf pain resolve with rest.  shedoes not always have back pain with the thigh and calf pain.  she also has occasionalright lateral foot pain that feels like an achy arthritic pain in her foot.  she takesvioxx occasionally for that foot pain.  she does not have any dysesthesias ornumbness in her feet or hands.  she has no recent trauma, fevers or chills.  she hasno change in her bowel or bladder.she has type 2 diabetes.  she has been taking glyburide 5 mg p.o. q.d.  her weight isstable.  she does get annual ophthalmology evaluations.  she has a history of hypertension. she has not had any chest pain, pnd, orthopnea,dyspnea on exertion or edema.  her blood pressure is never well controlled when shecomes for her visits here, but her daughter, iyanna field, a nurse takes herblood pressure at home and she reports that it is typically 120/70.  she is currently onpropranolol la 160 2 tabs p.o. q.d., dyazide 1 tab p.o. q.d., captopril 50 mg t.i.d.she has a history of hyperlipidemia.  she was intolerant of lipitor in the past.  shehas been taking the lopid 600 mg p.o. b.i.d. without complications.  she does not doregular breast self-exams but has not noted any masses.  she is status-postmenopause.  we discussed dexa bone density scanning, but she did not want to doit at this time.we also discussed colon cancer screening.  for now she elects to do stool guaiacs x 3. she has not had any nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, melena or hematochezia, abdominalpain or weight loss.    please see her complete medication update in the lmr. social history: she is married.  she drinks occasional but not excessive alcohol. she does not smoke.  there is no history of domestic abuse.family history: please see family history update in the lmr.review of systems: negative.she has not had a recent tetanus shot.physical exam: she is a very pleasant woman in no acute distress. her bloodpressure here is 150/90.  her neck is supple without jvd or bruits.  lungs are clearwithout wheezes, rales or rhonchi.  her breasts are without masses or adenopathy. her cardiac exam shows a regular rate and rhythm, normal s1, s2 without s3, s4 ormurmur.  abdomen is soft, nontender without hepatosplenomegaly.  she ismoderately obese.  her rectal exam is without masses.  she has no spinal tendernesson palpation.  her lower extremity strength is 5/5.  she does not have any peripheraledema.  her distal pulses are 2+.  her sensation is intact to light touch in her feet.  assessment and plan:  (1)  back pain with calf and thigh pain with walking.  this is probably due to her     spinal stenosis.  however, she is at risk for claudication given her diabetes,     hypertension and hyperlipidemia.  we will check lower extremity noninvasive     arterial studies to rule out claudication.  she can take the vioxx p.r.n. for her     foot pain which i do not think is related.(2)  type 2 diabetes.  she needs a hemoglobin a1c.  her blood pressure ideally     should be under 130/85.  she reports that it is consistently below that level     when her daughter checks it.  she needs as chem-7.  she has no evidence for     neuropathy at this time.(3)  health maintenance.  she needs a tetanus shot which she was given today.      will check stool guaiacs x 3.  we discussed calcium supplementation for osteoporosis prevention.  she will followup in six months and p.r.n.  she has not had a recent tetanus shot. she was given atetanus shot in the left deltoid without complications.ida xayachack, m.d.ix/delarosa/bishop