admission date :2015-09-16discharge date :2015-09-21date of birth :1962-09-26sex :mservice :cardiothorreason for admission :mitral valve repair .history of present illness :the patient is a 52 year old czech speaking gentleman with a history of severe mitral regurgitation .for the past several years , the patient has continued to have significant exercise intolerance which has limited his ability to work .he reports severe dyspnea on exertion .the patient had a recent admission earlier in the month and he was discharged on 2015-09-10 , after undergoing cardiac catheterization .this was significant for demonstrating no flow-limited disease in the coronaries but several fistulaefrom the left anterior descending to the pa .several of these were coil embolized during this admission .he tolerated this well , was sent home , and now returns for his mitral valve repair .past medical history :1. mitral valve regurgitation .past surgical history :none .medications on admission :1. atenolol 25 mg p.o. q. day .2. enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day .3. nitroglycerin sublingual p.r.n.allergies :no known drug allergies .social history :the patient is currently on disability and lives at home with his wife .kimberly was born in great britain .he denies any etoh or tobacco use .family history :negative .physical examination :the patient is in no acute distress .temperature is 98.3 f. ; pulse is 76 ; blood pressure 113/52 ; breathing 18 ; 98% on room air .heent :the patient is missing many teeth .oropharynx is clear .there is no cervical lymphadenopathy .supple neck .heart is regular rate and rhythm with a iii/vi systolic ejection murmur .his lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally .abdomen is soft and nontender .the patient has no cyanosis , clubbing or edema in extremities .laboratory :on admission include a white blood cell count of 5.6 , hematocrit of 32.5 , platelets of 202 .sodium of 140 , potassium of 3.5 , bun of 4 , creatinine of 0.6 , glucose of 137 .chest x-ray shows no infiltrate or pneumothorax .cardiac catheterization demonstrates no significant disease in the coronary arteries .two branches of an left anterior descending to pa fistula which was successfully coiled .there is a persistent flow through an inferior branch of the left anterior descending to pa fistula and a persistent branch of the circumflex to pa branch fistula which anatomically were not suitable for coil embolization .ejection fraction was 60% .hospital course :on the day of admission , the patient went to the operating room and underwent a minimally invasivemitral valve repair .he tolerated this procedure well .the patient was brought to the cardiothoracic intensive care unit in stable condition on minimal pressor support .he was successfully weaned off this support .the patient was fully weaned from ventilatory support secondary to a persistent acidemia .this was treated with sodium bicarbonate and a swan-ganz was placed to provide close hemodynamic monitoring .the patient was found to have stable hemodynamics with appropriate mixed venous saturations in the 70% range .the patient was corrected to a normal ph of 7.41 by the first postoperative night and remained stable .he was then weaned off of ventilatory support and was successfully extubated .the patient did have a slight bit of confusion early in post-extubation course which cleared .this was also compounded by a language barrier since the patient cannot speak english .in addition , the patient 's early postoperative course had a tremendous urine output .it was equally up to 700 cc. an hour and a renal consultation was obtained .he underwent a head ct scan to rule out intracranial pathology leading to diabetes insipidus .this was negative .the patient 's serum and urine electrolytes indicated that this diuresis was appropriate .the patient 's urine output has decreased and his bun and creatinine remained normal .the patient 's foley was discontinued .he had developed some hematuria which has resolved .the patient has remained stable and is now ready for discharge to home with follow-up in approximately four weeks .discharge diagnoses :1. mitral regurgitation status post minimally invasive mitral valve repair .discharge medications :1. lopressor 75 mg p.o. twice a day .2. colace 100 mg p.o. twice a day .3. percocet one to two p.o. q. four hours p.r.n.4. aspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day .condition on discharge :stable .digibsone instructions :1. the patient will follow-up with dr. de las grau in four weeks .2. he will follow-up with his primary care physician , dr. blake , in two weeks .3. the patient will call for any fevers or difficulties with the wound care , and will be instructed with an interpreter present .bruce lou murphy , m.d.07-760dictated by : ellen v wise , m.d.medquist36d : 2015-09-21 08:34t : 2015-09-26 15:44jo b#:18430signed electronically by : dr. mary van den mosley on : wed 2015-10-14 7:16 pm( end of report )