122099718 | fh | 55295029 | | 8148879 | 9/20/2003 12:00:00 am | mitral regurgitation | signed | dis | admission date: 10/20/2003 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/20/2003date of discharge: 10/20/2003attending: eusebio hendler mdprimary diagnosis: mitral valve regurgitation.history of present illness: the patient is a 26-year-old femalewith a past medical history significant for hodgkin's lymphomarequiring chemotherapy and radiation therapy , as well as ahistory of splenectomy , asthma , and history of tobacco use , whopresents to our service with symptoms of congestive heart failureincluding dyspnea on exertion , lower extremity bilateral edema ,and decrease exercise tolerance. on the day of admission ,2/22/03 , she underwent cardiac catheterization , which revealedclean coronary arteries. on august , 2003 , she thenunderwent an elective mitral valvuloplasty , 26 carpentier-edwardspericardial , with size 26 cosgrove-edwards ring and vegectomy.in the immediate postoperative period , she was transferred to thecardiac surgery intensive care unit initially requiring 0.5 ofepinephrine to maintain proper pressure. epinephrine was weanedto off on postoperative day #1. she was extubated in the eveningof the day of surgery and epinephrine was subsequently weaned tooff. gentle diuresis was begun on postoperative day #1 as wellas low dose beta blocker , which she tolerated well. she wastransferred to the cardiac surgery step down unit onpostoperative day #1 , where diuresis was increased. baby aspirinwas begun , and the patient continued to make excellentcardiovascular progress. on february , 2003 , she began tocomplain of some persistent numbness and tingling of the leftlower extremity , which she felt to be interrupting her attemptsto stand and maintain balance. for further treatment , aneurology consult was obtained. per neurology , she was found tohave no weakness at the left lower leg and foot , although whenpressure was exerted on the foot , she reported an uncomfortabletingling throughout the leg. she reported no back pain and nochange in bowel or bladder control. sensory examination wasfound to be intact , however , soft touch and pin sensation testedin the lateral leg below the knee caused a spreading tinglingsensation throughout the left lower extremity. per neurologyrecommendations , neurontin 300 mg q.d. was begun and it wasrecommended that she follow up with the department of neurologyfollowing discharge if the tingling sensation has not improved.with aggressive diuresis , the patient was able to regain herpostoperative weight and by the day of discharge was 1.7kilograms below her preoperative weight. she has made excellentcardiovascular progress following this surgery and is anticipatedto continue her rehabilitation at home with vna system.physical examination: the patient is an obese young woman alertand oriented x 3. heent: no carotid bruits or jvd present.pulmonary: lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally.coronary: regular rate and rhythm. normal s1 , s2. no murmurs ,rubs , or gallops appreciated. abdomen: obese , nontender , andnondistended. positive bowel sounds. extremities: 2+ pulses atall extremities bilaterally. trace edema at the bilateral lowerextremities to mid calf. skin: midline sternotomy incision wellapproximated , healing well. no areas of erythema or drainagenoted.laboratory data: on the day of discharge , sodium 141 , potassium4.2 , bun 17 , creatinine 1.0 , calcium 8.9 , magnesium 2.6 , whiteblood cell count 11.3 , hematocrit 33.5 , platelets 361 , and inr1.0.procedures: on 6/2/2003 , elective mitral valvuloplasty , 26cosgrove-edwards ring with vegectomy , small sterile vegetationson a2 and p2 debrided , and found by lab testing to be sterilevegetations. cross clamp times were confirmed by gram stain assterile and debrided intraoperatively. please refer to operativenote for details.consult: consulted department of neurology with followuprecommendations implemented during this patient's stay.disposition: the patient will be discharged today to her homewith vna assistance.discharge medications: enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. ,colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. x 7 days , lasix 60 mg p.o. q.d. ,ibuprofen 800 mg p.o. q.8h. p.r.n. pain , lopressor 25 mg p.o.t.i.d. , niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , atrovent nebulizer 0.5 mgnebulized q.i.d. , neurontin 300 mg p.o. q.d. , k-dur 30 meq p.o.q.d. to be discontinued or decreased if lasix dose is changed ,and flovent 44 mcg/inh b.i.d.the patient has been instructed to call to schedule follow upappointments with cogang medical center department ofcardiac surgery , dr. elbert reitzes , within 6-8 weeks followingdischarge as well as her primary care physician , dr. keith lapusnak in approximately 1-2 weeks as well as with hercardiologist , dr. wilbur nuzzo in 1-2 weeks. she willcall on recommendation from her primary care physician toschedule follow up appointment with tor's community hospital medical centerdepartment of neurology should her left lower extremity tinglingnot resolve. at that time , she would be advised to pursue emgtesting for further workup of dysasthesia. the patient has madeexcellent progress following her mitral valvuloplasty surgery andis anticipated that she will return to her full preoperativelevel of independent functioning with continued cardiovascularrehabilitation and vna assistance.please call if further questions or concerns.thank you for referring this patient to our service.escription document: 8-7019093 issten telcc: alvaro claud m.d.orq da2 , sleyapa hospitalgene osta ford , riwest hampmo norcc: roberto mellecker mddivision of cardiac surgeryi ni sonton ha naprocc: jonah debiasi m.d.dep dwardain medical centernaca scond pauldendictated by: kizzie , robertoattending: olivio , lewisdictation id 1671577d: 10/2/03t: 8/21/03