084203093 | tch | 83539961 | | 9596721 | 7/16/2006 12:00:00 am | right upper lobe pneumonia | signed | dis | admission date: 5/10/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/10/2006attending: dais , pasquale m.d.discharge diagnosis: community acquired pneumonia.chief complaint: cough and shortness of breath.history of present illness: this is a 60-year-old woman withend-stage renal disease on hemodialysis , hypertension , diabetes ,prior stroke as well as a non-st elevation mi with a rightcoronary artery stent placed in april of 2005 who presentswith a one week history of cough and shortness of breath. on theday of admission the patient experienced approximately 25minutes of chest pain that was 5/10 in severity while she was atdialysis. the patient describes this chest pain to beright-sided and pleuritic in nature. she denies fevers , chills ,nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain or diarrhea or lightheadedness.she also denies orthopnea or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. ofnote , at baseline , the patient does have slow speech with someright lower extremity weakness from her prior stroke in aprilof 2005. the ems service was called and noted thatshe had a large amount ofsecretions. on presentation to the emergency department , thepatient received aspirin , plavix , azithromycin ,cefpodoxime , vancomycin , captopril andtrileptal. she had a chest x-ray consistent with a right upperlobe pneumonia.past medical history: hypertension , coronary artery disease ,end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis monday , wednesday ,friday , status post cardiac catheterization with three-vesseldisease , diabetes , atrial fibrillation , stroke , seizure disorder ,right subclavian vein thrombosis with a status post svc stent.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications on admission zocor 40 mg p.o. once a day , aspirin 81mg p.o. once a day , toprol-xl 150 mg twice a day , nephrocaps onetablet p.o. once a day , plavix 75 mg p.o. once a day , trileptal300 mg p.o. once every morning , 450 mg p.o. once every evening ,nexium 20 mg p.o. once a day , sensipar 60 mg p.o. once a day ,norvasc 10 mg p.o. once a day , prozac 20 mg p.o. once a day ,captopril 50 mg p.o. three times a day.social history: the patient has a history of alcohol use in thepast but none currently. she denies tobacco or iv drug use. shelives in a rehab and has two children who live in gard seyriuxralden terbfamily history: noncontributory.physical examination on admission: temperature 97 , heart rate53 , blood pressure 143/52 , respiratory rate 20 and satting 100%on room air. general: the patient was in no apparent distress ,alert and oriented x3 with slow speech and a mild right-sidedfacial droop. heent: pupils were equal , round and reactive tolight , extraocular muscles intact , moist mucous membranes , jvp at8 cm. cardiovascular: significant for 3/6 harsh systolicejection murmur at the right upper sternal border heard to thecarotids and also at the apex. chest: decreased respiratoryeffort. no egophony , no crackles , no rhonchi. abdomen soft ,nontender , nondistended , normoactive bowel sounds. back: thepatient has a decubitus ulcer on the sacrum. extremities warmand well perfused with 1+ pedal edema. neurologic examination:cranial nerves ii-xii intact , she did have some right lowerextremity weakness that has been chronic. sensation testing wasintact throughout.laboratory data: significant for potassium 3.3 ,bun 13 , creatinine od 2 , bnp 7900. one set of negative cardiacenzymes. white blood cell count 3.1 , hematocrit 36 , platelets248 , inr 1.2 , ekg showed some new st depressions in the inferiorand lateral leads that were new from prior. chest x-ray; pa andlateral showed a new ill-defined opacity in the right upper lobelikely representing pneumonia. chest ct without contrast showedno evidence of cavitary lesion within the lungs , a small area ofconsolidation within the right upper lobe consistent withpossible pneumonia. a nodule in the right upper lobe that was 8mm in size and stable from 2005 , but should be followed upapproximately every 6 months with follow up with cat scan of thechest. there were coronary calcifications.hospital course by system:1. infectious disease , the patient was admitted with a rightupper lobe pneumonia somewhat concerning for aspirationpneumonia , pneumonia given that she was found to have a largeamount of secretions upon admission. she was initially treatedwith vancomycin to cover for mrsa as well as ceftriaxone andazithromycin. she had nasal swabs that were negative forinfluenza a&p. she also had a ppd placed on may , 2006 ,that was negative. she had two sputum cultures that were sentfor afb smears that were negative for acid fast bacilli. hervancomycin was discontinued after 24 hours. she has completed a5-day course of azithromycin. she has to complete another 5doses of cefpodoxime have outpatient that should be admittedadministered three times a week after hemodialysis. the patienthad a chest ct that showed no evidence for a cavitary lesion.she does however have a pulmonary nodule in the right upper lobethat should be followed with interval cat scans as an outpatient.the patient also had a beta glucan and serum tests that arecurrently pending. the patient has had negative culture data.she was initially placed on tuberculosis precautions , however ,given the absence of cavitary lesion on chest ct , negative ppdand negative sputum cultures , the likelihood of tb was thought tobe extremely low and her precautions were discontinued.2. fluids , electrolytes and nutrition: the patient had a speechand swallow evaluation for concern of aspiration. she was placedon mechanical soft honey thick liquid diet that she shouldcontinue upon discharge. she will likely need a repeat speechand swallow evaluation while at rehabilitation and may possiblyneed a video swallow examination if she continues to show signsof aspiration. in addition , the head of her bed should be keptelevated. the patient was also noted to have hypercalcemiaduring this admission. the patient should have a serum proteinelectrophoresis as an outpatient for further evaluation.currently , her calcium supplementation during dialysis has beendiscontinued. in addition , her pth level is currently pendingand should be followed up as an outpatient.3. renal: the patient has end-stage renal disease onhemodialysis. she undergoes hemodialysis monday , wednesday andfriday and she should continue this upon discharge at the alllou lorda hospitalat son prai , 927 511 8904. she wasadmitted to the renal service. she continues on nephrocaps.4. cardiovascular: the patient had three sets of negativecardiac enzymes and ruled out for myocardial infarction. thepatient is status post recent non-st elevation mi was continuedon aspirin , plavix , statin , ace inhibitor , beta-blocker. sheappeared euvolemic on examination.5. gi: the patient was placed on a bowel regimen.6. prophylaxis: the patient received ppi and heparin for dvtprophylaxis.7. wound care: the patient was seen by the wound care consultservice for a stage 2 sacral decubitus ulcer. she should haveduoderm dressing applied to this ulcer every three days. shealso benefits from an air mattress and vitamin c supplementationas well.8. endocrine: the patient's tsh was normal at 1.12.9. hematology: the patient had evidence of anemia of chronicdisease. folate was normal , b12 was normal.10. psych: the patient continued on prozac for depression.11. neuro: the patient continued on trileptal for her seizuredisorder.code status: the patient is full-code and her health care proxyis her son.discharge medications tylenol 650 mg p.o. every six hours , asneeded for pain , not to exceed 4 grams a day , aspirin 81 mg p.o.once a day , albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg nebs every 4 hours ,norvasc 10 mg p.o. once a day , vitamin c 250 mg p.o. twice a day ,captopril 50 mg p.o. three times a day , cefpodoxime 400 mg p.o.three times a week after hemodialysis for 5 more doses , plavix 75mg p.o. once a day , colace 100 mg p.o. twice a day , nexium 40 mgp.o. once a day , prilosec 20 mg p.o. once a day , toprol-xl 150 mgp.o. twice a day , nephrocaps one tablet p.o. once a day ,trileptal 300 mg p.o. once every morning and 450 mg p.o. onceevery afternoon , senna two tablets p.o. twice a day , hold ifloose stool , zocor 40 mg p.o. at bedtime , zinc sulfate 220 mgp.o. once daily for fourteen doses.to do list:1. continue wound care for sacral decubitus ulcer.2. follow up with primary care provider to have serum proteinelectrophoresis as outpatient as well as monitoring of her rightupper lobe pulmonary nodule seen on chest ct.3. please have repeat speech and swallow evaluation atrehabilitation to assess for aspiration.4. please continue current plan for hemodialysis every monday ,wednesday and friday.escription document: 7-2389403 rssten telcc: wiley ricky mumm md , drphmondrevetroit pitgas vendictated by: wauch , bennettattending: powless , stuartdictation id 3878727d: 4/10/06t: 4/10/06