862410516 | rh | 19516324 | | 206905 | 6/5/1998 12:00:00 am | asthma | unsigned | dis | admission date: 8/13/1998 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 9/23/1998history of present illness: the patient is a 50 year old obesegentleman who has a history of asthmaand hypertension. no known history of coronary artery disease.the patient presented with acute onset of wheezing on the morningof admission. he was in his usual state of health until hedeveloped this shortness of breath while driving which he isbelieved is secondary to an asthma flare. he received albuteroland atrovent nebulizers in the emergency room , as well as ivsolu-medrol for oxygen saturation in the 80s , with someimprovement. he was also noted to have an elevated triponin levelat 0.12. the ck was 241 with mb of 0. subsequent ck was 393 withmb of 50.1. he was transferred to the cardiology service for ruleout myocardial infarction and for further evaluation and treatment.at that time he denied any chest pain or radiation of pain.social history: remarkable for tobacco use of one to two cigars aday. ethanol use.past medical history: hypertension. asthma. nephroticproteinuria. insulin-dependent diabetesmellitus. elevated cholesterol.past surgical history: status post thoracotomy in 1986 forretrocardiac/atrial cystic mass. statuspost vasectomy.allergies: penicillin.medications: metformin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. , insulin nph 33 unitssubcu q.a.m. and 15 units subcu q.p.m. , lisinopril 20mg q.d. , losartan 100 mg q.d. , zocor 20 mg q.d. , lasix 160 mg p.o.b.i.d. , colchicine 0.6 mg b.i.d. p.r.n. , and indomethicine 25 mgp.r.n. , as well as beclomethicine multidose inhalers 4 puffs b.i.d.p.r.n. wheeze.physical examination: obese gentleman in mild distress.extraocular movements intact. pupils equal ,round , and reactive to light and accommodation. he had bibasilarcrackles , as well as wheezes , throughout. heart: regular rate andrhythm. no murmurs , rubs , or gallops. abdomen: large , obese.tympanitic. good bowel sounds. extremities: no edema.laboratory data: electrolytes were within normal limits. serumglucose 269. cbc: wbc 12 , hematocrit 49 ,platelet count 261.hospital course: he was admitted for rule out myocardialinfarction and he , indeed , was found to rule infor a myocardial infarction with triponin of 7.77. he had anechocardiogram which revealed inferior septal hypokinesis , leftventricular ejection fraction of approximately 40%. he had normalpa systolic pressures. he underwent cardiac catheterization on7/1/98 which revealed stenosis of the left anterior descendingartery of 90% and left circumflex artery of 90% and right coronaryartery total occlusion. it also showed ejection fraction of 25%.based on these catheterization results and his ruling in formyocardial infarction , he was taken to the operating room on4/8/98 for an elective coronary artery bypass graft.the left internal mammary artery was grafted to the left anteriordescending artery. the saphenous vein graft and radial artery wereused to graft the aorta to the obtuse marginal and to the posteriordescending artery. at the time of the procedure there was drainageof a bronchogenic cyst which was identified by echocardiogram. thecontents of the cyst were found to be sterile. during theprocedure he had an intra-aortic balloon pump placed.postoperatively he had some bleeding from his chest tubes. thechest was left open postoperatively and covered with esmarchbandage. several hours postoperatively he had some bleeding andrequired re-exploration of the chest. we removed a small amount ofbleeding from the cavity. one pack was left in.he remained on several inatropes and pressors and remained on anintra-aortic balloon pump. he was transfused with multiple bloodproducts , including platelets and fresh frozen plasma for continuedleaking. he remained intubated and was gradually weaned off ofpressors. he also remained on a lasix drip for diuresis and hecontinued to receive multiple units of blood products.on 4/3/98 he underwent sternal closure in the operating room. thepatient tolerated the procedure well. he was again taken tointensive care unit. he remained intubated and on an intra-aorticballoon pump. on 10/21/98 the patient had been extubated andintra-aortic balloon pump had been removed. gradually his cardiacdrips were weaned. postoperatively he had atrial fibrillation andhe was begun on coumadin. he had an atrial arrhythmia which wascontrolled medically. he continued to progress slowly and wasbegun on oral medications as his drips were weaned.the patient was noted to have a 3 cm upper sternal opening whichwas initially thought to be possibly infected and this was openedas concern for his diabetes mellitus and possible infection.plastic surgery was consulted and there was no gross infection tobe found. he had gram stain and culture obtained of the wound.the gram stain revealed sterile wound and culture had grown outnothing. the plastic surgery recommended two week course of ivvancomycin to cover possible organisms; however , there was noclinical evidence of infection. the patient had a picc line placedfor long term antibiotics and he is being discharged on vancomyciniv at a dose of 1 mg iv q18h with peak and trough to be checked atrehabilitation facility. he will also continue with wet to drydressing changes on the sternal wound t.i.d.disposition: discharge medications: tylenol #3 1 to 2 tabletsp.o. q3 - 4h p.r.n. pain , albuterol nebulizers 2.5 mgnebulizers q4h , beclovent 4 puffs inhaled b.i.d. , digoxin 0.25 mgp.o. q.d. , diltiazem 30 mg p.o. t.i.d. , colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. ,lasix 80 mg p.o. t.i.d. his preoperative dosage of insulin , aswell as lisinopril.dictated by: wesley gaulden , m.d. ji43attending: von e. slater , m.d. jj84mb337/6387batch: 2893 index no. ienogb221s d: 8/25/98t: 8/25/98