828834554 | pnmc | 69046457 | | 282740 | 2/20/2000 12:00:00 am | abdominal pain | signed | dis | admission date: 2/20/2000 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/21/2001chief complaint: a 29-year-old g 3 p 2 admitted on postoperativeday #19 , status post a stat cesarean section at29 weeks for fetal bradycardia following laparoscopiccholecystectomy. she was readmitted for wound infection.history of present illness: the patient's past medical historyis significant for cardiac transplantin 1989 for a dilated cardiomyopathy. the patient is on multipleimmunosuppressants. the patient had several episodes of acutecholecystitis and underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy nineteendays prior to admission. fetal bradycardia developed immediatelyfollowing the cholecystectomy and a stat cesarean section wasperformed. the patient was returned to the cardiology service forfurther management of fluid status and mild congestive heart failure.she was discharged on postoperative day #7. on 3/3 the patientwas seen in the mfm practice and a wound hematoma on the left side wasnoted. it was and drained with normal , healthy tissue identified.she had b.i.d. dressing changes with a visiting nurse. on the day ofadmission the patient noted a temperature to 100.0 , slightly foul-smellingdischarge from the wound. she denied abdominal pain. the patientalso noted that the right foot pain present at the time of surgeryhad been worsening over the course of the day and was noted to beswollen and erythematous at the time of admission.past medical history: viral cardiomyopathy , now status posttransplant , hypertension , chronic renalinsufficiency with a baseline creatinine of 1.4-1.8 ,hyperlipidemia , obesity , history of group a strep sepsis in 1998.past surgical history: cesarean section x 2 in 1998 and 2001 ,laparoscopic cholecystectomy on 10/24 ,d&e for sab in 11 of november , status post eye surgery in 1973.medications: imuran 75 mg p.o. b.i.d.; cyclosporin 125 mg p.o.q.d.; prednisone 10 mg p.o. q.d.; pravastatin 10 mgp.o. q. h.s.; quinidine sulfate 25 mg p.o. t.i.d.; kaopectate 30mg p.o. q. i.d.; zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.; miconazole topical 2%p.r.n.; tylenol #3 1-2 p.o. q. 4-6h p.r.n. pain.allergies: sulfa , penicillin , ivp dye all cause pink rash ,succinylcholine resulted in respiratory arrest.physical examination on admission: vital signs: temperature 98.6 ,blood pressure 120/60 ,respirations 18 , pulse 74. heart: regular rate and rhythm.lungs: clear to auscultation bilaterally. abdomen: obese ,nontender , nondistended , incision was open at two sites. there wasgray , malodorous fluid draining from the wound. the wound trackedsuperiorly on the left. the fascia was intact. there was noevidence of necrotic tissue. extremities: distal extremities hadtrace edema , right greater than left with erythema and tendernesson the dorsal surface of the right ankle.hospital course: 1 ) wound infection: an infectious diseaseconsult was obtained at the time of admission andthe patient was sent for immediate intraoperative treatment andwound debridement. surgery was consulted intraoperatively toconfirm healthy tissue and no evidence of necrosis. the patientwas started on levofloxacin and clindamycin iv and t.i.d. dressingchanges. blood cultures obtained prior to antibiotic therapy werenegative for bacteremia. cultures of the wound were consistentwith strep and diphtheroids with obvious polymicrobial involvement.on hospital day #3 blood cultures which had been drawn from thepatient's indwelling line returned with 2/4 bottles positive forgram-positive cocci in clusters. the central line was discontinued.the patient began treatment on vancomycin 1 gram iv q. 12h , levofloxacinwas continued and the flagyl was started 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. thepatient remained afebrile throughout this time. a ct of the abdomenand pelvis was obtained per infectious disease recommendation and itconfirmed that there was no intraabdominal abscess. the patient wascontinued on iv vancomycin with p.o. flagyl and levofloxacin until4/14/01 , hospital day #8. at that point the patient was discharged tohome with visiting nurse and continued iv and p.o. antibiotics x 14days. cultures obtained following discontinuation of her centralline returned as negative. on hospital day #6 the patient hada significant yeast infection surrounding the lower aspect of theincision as well as in the intertriginous areas. this was treatedwith topical nystatin.2 ) cardiovascular: the patient's cardiac standpoint remainedstable throughout the admission with no evidence of congestiveheart failure. routine echo was performed on 5/25/01 as scheduledper her transplant protocol. there were no other cardiovascularissues during the patient's admission.3 ) renal: the patient had a baseline history of renalinsufficiency as described above with a creatinine of 2.1 onadmission. creatinine increased during her admission to a maximumof 3.1. she was also noted to have decreasing urine output at thattime. adjustments were made in vancomycin and cyclosporin levelsand the patient's creatinine slowly returned to baseline withsignificant improvement of urine output.4 ) gi: the patient had no difficulties with bowel function untilhospital day #5 when patient was noting increasingly loosestools. c. diff. was obtained x 2 and were negative. she wastreated with imodium p.r.n.5 ) rheumatology: the patient had initially right ankle pain andswelling noted at the time of admission. a rheumatology consultwas obtained and the joint was tapped and there was no evidence ofinfection at that time. the patient was continued to be followedby rheumatology and , based on rheumatology and transplant teamrecommendations , was treated with colchicine for the diagnosis ofgout on immunosuppressant medications. the possibility of plantarfasciitis was raised during admission and treatment was painmedication , continued colchicine and physical therapy. the patientwas able to ambulate at the time of discharge.discharge medications: vancomycin 750 mg iv q. 12h; levofloxacin500 mg p.o. q.d.; flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d.x 14 days; percocet 1-2 p.o. q. 3-4h p.r.n. pain.the patient had a visiting nurse established for continued b.i.d.dressing changes at home and to obtain vancomycin and cyclosporinlevels as needed.followup: she will be followed by her cardiac transplant team tofollow her antibiotic and immunosuppressant levels. shewas scheduled for routine follow up with the cardiac transplantteam with no changes in appointment time , follow up with ob/gyn intwo weeks' time.dictated by: ramon arakawa , m.d. zw64attending: warner j. burston , m.d. hj5pv049/5050batch: 75859 index no. sfodua63ze d: 10/13/01t: 9/30/01