189075709 | gh | 25936617 | | 3692041 | 10/20/2003 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/20/2003 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: randell souphom m.d.principal diagnosis:dilated cardiomyopathy.secondary diagnoses:right foot osteomylitis , left calf ulcer , hypertension ,peripheral vascular disease , nonsustained vt , gout , occipitalcva , atrial fibrillation , left vocal cord paralysis , and renalfailure.history of present illness:the patient is a 54-year-old man with nonischemic dilatedcardiomyopathy who presents with weight gain , weakness , andazotemia. the patient has known cardiomyopathy thought to besecondary to alcohol with incomplete cardiology follow up.cardiac catheterization performed in 1998 showed a right atrialpressure of 16 , pa pressure 49 of 28 , pulmonary capillary wedgepressure of 26 , cardiac output of 4 , cardiac stress done in 2002 ,he lasted 5 minutes 30 seconds did not read anaerobic thresholdwith a zo2 of 11.1. the patient was admitted in february 2003 withdecompensated heart failure. an echo showed lv edd of 65 andejection fraction of 25% with moderate mr and severe tr treatedwith dobutamine , seretide , and diuretics with good effect.course complicated by left leg cellulitis and worsening renalfunctioning on ace inhibitor. two weeks prior to presentation ,the patient was seen in clinic with fluid retention , diureticswere increased , then had worsening renal function , so diureticswas held and now presented with fatigue , leg edema , and drainingfoot wound.past medical history:hypertension , diabetes , peripheral vasculare disease , status posttransmetatarsal amputations , osteomyelitis , and vt. the patientdeclined icd , gout , occipital cva , and atrial fibrillation.medications on admission:digoxin 0.125 mg q.o.d. , imdur 30 mg q.d. , hydralazine 25 mgt.i.d. , torsemide was being held , coumadin 1 mg q.d. , carvedilol3.125 mg b.i.d. , allopurinol 100 mg q.d. , glucophage , andglyburide.family history:father with coronary artery disease in 80s.social history:he currently lives with a roommate. family is somewhat strange ,although recently more involved with the patient. no tobacco useand moderate alcohol consumption per patient.allergies:no known drug allergies.physical examination:a tired older man lying at 30 degrees with profound fatigue.blood pressure 84/60 , pulse 100 and regular , weight 102.4 kg , andtemperature 99.4. mild pallor. no scleral icterus. jvp to theangle of jaw. coarse breath sounds bilaterally without wheeze.cardiac irregular and soft systolic murmur at the left sternalborder. no s3 , gallop , or rub. abdomen reveals decreased bowelsounds. liver - four fingerbreadths below right costal margin ,nonpulsatile. no guarding or rebound. extremities: warm with 3+edema to thighs.laboratory data on admission:sodium 129 , potassium 4.2 , bun 133 , creatinine 1.2 , hematocrit31.9 , white blood cell count 15.8 with 89% polys , 8 bands , andinr 4.6 , albumin 2.7 and total bilirubin 3.4 , and normaltransaminases. ecg showed atrial fibrillation at 90 per minute ,low voltage , poor r-wave progression with qrs widening , andnonspecific t-wave abnormality.hospital course:the patient was admitted to cardiology service for continuedmanagement of his volume overload , dilated cardiomyopathy , andlower extremity infections. this hospital course will besummarized briefly by dates.1. on 11/21/03 , the patient was found to have progression of hisright lower extremity infection and was taken to the or fordebridement.2. on 10/8/03 , diuril was added to his regimen and hiscreatinine was noted to increase from 2.6 to 3.6 and diureticswere subsequently held.3. on 6/25/03 , the patient retuned to the or for revision ofright wound infection and underwent a further transmetatarsalamputation.4. on 5/5/03 , the patient noted nausea , fatigue , and malaisecoincident with 20-beat run of vt followed by syncope in thestetting of dobutamine. the vt terminated spontaneously. thepatient was loaded on amiodarone , unfortunately still requiredlow dose dobutamine to maintain his cardiac output.5. on 11/2/03 , the patient returned to the or for debridementand was noted to be hypotensive with baseline systolic bloodpressures of 80s going to 60s over palp with decrease urineoutput. he was transferred to the ccu briefly and did well onionotropes and diuretics. he was transferred back to the floorand continued to have decrease urine output on maximal diureticdoses and ionotropes.6. on 6/5/03 , the renal surgery recommended that the dobutaminebe stopped in order to enhance renal perfusion and lasix beincreased to 80 mg per hour. the patient promptly developedcardiogenic shock with discontinuation of dobutamine and wasagain transferred to the ccu with systolic blood pressures in the60s. he was ashen and cold. subsequently , he has requireddobutamine between 1 and 2.5 mcg/kg/minute to maintain hiscardiac output as well as cvvh for volume management. he hastolerated the fl rates between 15 and 200.7. on 4/28/03 , the patient noted hoarseness. otolaryngologyevaluation demonstrated paralyzed left vocal cords thought to besecondary to left atrial enlargement or potentially the placementof a left ij catheter.8. on 5/6/03 , a tunneled catheter was placed for hemodialysisand cvvh access with plan initiation of hemodialysis.9. on 10/30/03 , he had first course of hemodialysis and hetolerated this procedure well. a picc line was placed. thepatient was given a pneumococcal vaccine.10. cardiovascular:a. pump: the patient with advanced dilated cardiomyopathy withpoor overall prognosis , was admitted for aggressive diuresis inorder to improve his position on the ?? ?? curve. this wasperformed by cvvh and is now being transitioned to hemodialysis.he has beyond less invasive measures such as digoxin and aceinhibitors , and he is now dobutamine dependent.b. ischemia: the patient without any history of ischemic heartdisease and no symptoms suggestive of any incorporate lesions.c. rhythm: chronic af and occasional ectopy and vt ondobutamine , currently loaded on amiodarone without any furtherevents.11. infectious disease: the patient with chronic osteomylitis ,currently in a six-week course of ceftazidime , vancomycin ,flagyl , and diflucan for complicated osteomyelitis , end date ison 9/27/03. he was given pneumococcal vaccine. he isup-to-date on his flu vaccine.12. renal: the patient has had progressive renal failure likelysecondary to low flow to the kidneys. this has been exacerbatedby ace inhibitors in the past. in addition , increasing doses ofdiuretics have been ineffective that the patient is able toobtain increased amounts of cardiac output. as he comes onstrongly through , he may regain some renal function , however , itis predicted that he will require hemodialysis for remainder ofthe life. he has tolerated this. a tunneled catheter was placedfor access on 10/20/03.13. vascular: the patient with peripheral vascular disease nowstatus post transmetatarsal amputation. he remains with a openwound in his left foot and a calf ulcer. the patient is plannedto be evaluated by plastic surgery prior to discharge for finalplans whether a flap or healing by secondary retention.14. psychiatry: the patient is depressed with frequent periodsof anxiety , exceedingly fearful of dying , and unable to sleepwith light off or with drapes pole secondary to believe that ifhe falls asleep , he will no longer wake up. he was seen bypsychiatry , who suggested starting low dose of zyprexa in theevening. this has greatly improved his mood and he is doing wellfrom this regard.15. endocrine: the patient failed a course of stimulation testand was started on hydrocortisone. when this was tapered down ,he had some periods of hypotension and this was increased again.he remains on maintenance doses of hydrocortisone. etiology ofhis adrenal insufficieny is unclear. additionally , the patienthas diabetes. he was on oral hypoglycemic as an outpatient ,however , now this renal function , he has been transitioned overto insulin with his standing doses of lantus with a lisprosliding scale.16. fen: the patient was started on tpn for quite severemalnutrition. he now has increasing albumin with increasedappetite , and he is tolerating more food. he has been placed onnectar thick liquids for secondary to left vocal cord paralysisand visualized aspiration on barium swallow by ent.disposition:the patient currently is stable.plan:at this point , would be discharge with home dobutamine andfrequent and careful follow up by his primary cardiologist dr.mongioviescription document: 4-1922327 emsdictated by: kaeding , damianattending: rothberg , cletusdictation id 2549097d: 10/30/03t: 8/25/03