010783020 | cemh | 09823070 | | 5840580 | 10/25/2007 12:00:00 am | intraabdominal abscess | signed | dis | admission date: 9/25/2007 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/14/2007attending: bottini , carrol mdprimary care physician: noel botterbusch , mdservice: nyla general hospital surgery.principal diagnosis: wound infection.list of problems:1. wound infection.2. coronary artery disease.3. diabetes mellitus.4. hypertension.5. asthma.6. obstructive sleep apnea.7. morbid obesity.8. depression.9. peripheral vascular disease.10. history of cerebrovascular accident.history of present illness: this is a 51-year-old female withrecurrent incisional hernia , status post repair x2 by dr. beaston ,who now presents with five days of abdominal pain , fever to 103 ,vomiting two days ago , and dizziness. she denies constipation ordiarrhea , urinary symptoms and nausea. the pain is constant andsharp over her previous incision. last bowel movement was in themorning of her admission.past medical history: coronary artery disease status post pci in2003 of the right coronary artery , insulin-dependant diabetesmellitus , hypertension , history of cerebrovascular accident , indetail , right thalamic infarct , left temporal watershed withresidual right-sided weakness , peripheral vascular disease statuspost right saphenous artery stent , gerd , gastritis , erosiveesophagitis , asthma with an fev of 2.2 and an fev-fvc ratio of82% , sleep apnea , morbid obesity , currently undergoing outpatientevaluation for gastric bypass surgery , depression , andfibromyalgia.past surgical history: cholecystectomy; repair of ventralhernias x2 , last one in 2001 by dr. ebert ; total abdominalhysterectomy , oophorectomy , and tubal ligation.medications at home: aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , albuterol inhaler2 puffs four times a day as needed , amitriptyline 25 mg p.o. atbedtime , atenolol 50 mg p.o. daily , lipitor 40 mg p.o. daily ,caltrate 600 plus d one tablet p.o. daily , plavix 75 mg p.o.daily , diltiazem sustained release 120 mg p.o. daily , nexium 40mg p.o. daily , ferrous sulfate 325 mg three times a day , prozac80 mg p.o. daily , advair diskus 550 one puff twice a day ,glyburide 5 mg p.o. daily , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. daily ,insulin nph humulin 70 units subcutaneously every morning , 60units subcutaneously every evening , insulin regular humulin 5units subcutaneously every morning , insulin regular humulin 80units subcutaneously a.c. , imdur er 60 mg p.o. daily , lisinopril40 mg p.o. daily , and oxycodone 5 mg p.o. every six hours asneeded for pain.allergies: the patient has no known drug allergies.social history: she is a 34-pack-year smoker that quit one yearago. denies etoh or iv drug use.physical examination: on admission , her abdomen was both softand obese. tender above the midline incision with induration.there was no overlying erythema.labs: notable for high white blood cellcount of 20.5 as well as a troponin of 0.16.imaging: ct scan of the abdomen and pelvis showed a6.1 x 6-cm loculated abscess adjacent to her current hernia , notcommunicating with small bowel , also showed no obstruction.the patient was admitted to the istsa anyi medical center surgery service. afterreviewing once more the imaging , it was determined that theabscess was involving the mesh placed during the last ventralhernia repair. the decision to proceed with aninterventional radiology guided percutaneous drainage of theabscess was done. 98 ml of dark brownand bloody discharge was extruded from this procedure and sent to microbiology ,two drains were left in place. eventually , 2+ klebsiella pneumoniae grewsensitive to severalantibiotics , for which her antibiotic therapy was redirected tolevofloxacin. on 10/2/07 , the patient was takento the operating room to remove the infected mesh. a cardiologyconsult had been obtained because of her troponin leak. the event wasdetermined to be ischemic in nature;however , given her surgical indication , cardiology did notrecommend an intervention at the cath lab at the moment; however ,they do recommend that she is followed as an outpatient. thepatient was then taken to the operating room for an abdominalwound exploration and removal of mesh.hospital course by systems:1. neuro: the patient did well with p.r.n. morphine andeventually p.r.n. oxycodone to control her pain. she has ahistory of depression , so a social work consult was obtained ,which provided emotional support for the patient.2. cardiovascular: she was initially given iv lopressorperioperatively and eventually she was restarted on her homecardiovascular medications. cardiology continued to follow andher troponin trended down.3. pulmonary: there were no issues.4. gi: her diet was going to be advanced , however , onpostoperative day #2 , unfortunately bile was noted to beseeping out of her abdominal wound , which was interpreted as thedevelopment an enterocutaneous fistula. this was treated withbowel rest and wet-to-dry dressings initially. eventually , a vacsponge was placed , which after three days was removed and healthygranulation tissue was appreciated underneath its original place. a new vacsponge will be placed once transferred to rehab.5. gu: maintenance ivf as needed6. fen: a picc line was placed and tpn was initiated after theenterocutaneous fistula was identified. tpn is now at goal.7. heme: subcutaneous heparin.8. endocrine: diabetes service was consulted and a insulinregimen was initially difficult to achieve due to high bloodglucose measurements initially and brief episodes of hypoglycemiatwo days before her discharge. however , her insulin regimen nowappears to be optimal.9. id: initially received vancomycin , levofloxacin , and flagylsince her admission; however , once the above results were noted ,this antibiotic regimen was tailored down to a levofloxacin. sheis now being discharged on no antibiotics.discharge medication: tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4 h. as needed forheadache or fever to greater than 101 , aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily ,albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg nebs every four hours as needed forshortness of breath , amitriptyline 25 mg p.o. at bedtime asneeded for insomnia , plavix 75 mg p.o. daily , diltiazem extendedrelease 120 mg p.o. daily , nexium 20 mg p.o. daily , prozac 80 mgp.o. daily , advair diskus 550 one puff twice a day , heparin 5000units subcutaneously every eight hours , insulin nph humulin 25units every morning and 25 units every evening , insulin regularhumulin sliding scale every four hours , imdur er 60 mg p.o.daily , lisinopril 40 mg p.o. daily , lopressor 50 mg p.o. twice aday , naftifine topical daily , octreotide acetate 100 mcgsubcutaneously twice a day , oxycodone 5 to 10 mg p.o. every fourhours as needed for pain , and simvastatin 80 mg p.o. at bedtime.disposition: rehabilitation facility.followup plans: the patient should contact dr. waldhauser for afollowup appointment.code status: the patient is full code.escription document: 2-1778561 cssten teldictated by: freiman , patricia tuanattending: glaser , martydictation id 0598600d: 4/7/07t: 4/7/07