record #954658258792708 | cg | 12881449 | | 5754153 | 0/12/2006 12:00:00 am | right chronic leg ulcer | signed | dis | admission date: 5/24/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/28/2006date of admission: 5/24/2006attending: derocher , shaun antonio mdaddendum:admission to the icu: 0/10/06 .this will be the hospital course and plan as well as thedischarge medications.hospital course:1. lower extremity wounds: the patient had several left lowerextremity wounds which by report had been chronic as well as adeeper acute onset right lower extremity wound which wasulcerated to the level of muscle. it was thought that this woundhad occurred as a result of a hematoma after incision anddrainage by surgical service one to two weeks prior to admission.there was no obvious evidence of infection , however , it iscertainly possible that there is a soft tissue surrounding thatulcer. there was some thought of whether that could beosteomyelitis underlying the ulcer. the patient had tibial andfibula films which at first there was some consideration ofwhether there was abnormality to the bone. on furtherconsideration , it was felt this is most likely not the case ,however , to evaluate more specifically a bone scan was performed.there was no uptake in the area of that ulcer , however , therewas some mild uptake at the left achilles tendon calcanealinsertion and marked uptake in the t9 thoracic 9th vertebrae. acat scan of the spine was performed which revealed no evidence ofinfection or neoplasm but there was evidence of osteopenia andpossibly a microfracture but no evidence of real compressionfracture. the patient was seen and examined by the vascularsurgery consult service and dr. smallidge , her primary vascularsurgeon. their recommendation in terms of wound dressing wasthree times a day , wet-to-dry dressing changes with 4 x 8 gauzesponges. it was recommended that the patient follow up with dr.goolden in mid 9/2 .  please call dr. usman 's office for anappointment. the recommendation for three times a day wet-to-drydressings without additional ointments or treatments. thepatient should be followed by wound care service. in addition ,the patient has small necrotic regions on her heels. theseshould be treated with panafil. in terms of her sacral decubitusulcer , the patient was seen by the plastic surgery service , theydebrided the wound twice , there was minimal amount of superficialnecrotic tissue which was excised. their recommendations forfurther care were to apply one-quarter strength dakin's solutionsoaked wet-to-dry dressings to be changed twice a day for 48hours that will be for 36 hours from discharge and then thistreatment should be changed to standard wet-to-dry dressingstwice daily to that sacral decubitus ulcer. they recommend thatshe be placed on an air mattress. she should have turns at leastevery 2 hours. they also recommend that her weight be kept offthe sacrum and that her nutrition be optimized. she was placedon a multivitamin , continued on calcium , started on zinc , vitaminc supplements as well. the patient should follow up with dr.roscoe szymonik as an outpatient. this should be scheduled bycalling 561-371-4397.2. infectious disease: the patient was initially admitted witha low-grade temperature. it was unclear whether she had aprimary infection and what the source of that infection was.cultures were taken from blood , urine , and sputum. all bloodcultures were negative. urine culture grew extended spectrumbeta-lactamase resistant klebsiella pneumonia which wasintermediate to ciprofloxacin and sensitive to levofloxacin.because the patient has so little urine output it was unclearwhether at first this was a colonizer or an actual infection.infectious disease consultation was requested. theirrecommendations were to start ciprofloxacin and then this waschanged to levofloxacin when the final susceptibilities came backand they continued that for a two-week course. she is currentlyon levofloxacin 500 mg iv q.48h. this course will finish on5/24/06 . sputum cultures grew multidrug resistant pseudomonasaeruginosa as well as a few acinetobacter which were alsoresistant to many antibiotics. after close consultation withinfectious disease consultation service it was decided that thesewere most likely colonizers. there was no evidence of an acutepneumonia or tracheobronchitis and the patient was not treatedfor her colonization with acinetobacter and pseudomonas. in thepast she has had multiple other multiple drug resistant organismsthat grew from her sputum cultures at other institutions and itwas felt that unless she demonstrated evidence of clinicalpulmonary infection these should not be treated. overall , herhemodynamic status was stable and she was afebrile throughout hercourse. several days into her admission , however , she did haveone episode of low blood pressure initially treated withintravenous fluids and then norepinephrine infusion for shortperiod of time. however , on repeat cuff pressure manually it wasrevealed that her blood pressure actually was normal and thatthere was dysfunction possibly because of her obesity of theautomatic cuff , therefore it was thought that this low bloodpressure was spurious and probably an artifact of the cuff thatwas being used. so in conclusion the only medication ondischarge will be levofloxacin 500 mg q.48h. through 5/24/06 .3. cardiovascular: the patient has a history of coronary arterydisease and atrial fibrillation. she was on toprol 12.5 mg bymouth two times a day throughout her stay. her heart rate rangedfrom 120s-130s when she was first admitted to 50s-60s ondischarge. this should be readdressed regularly in terms of herneed for rate control. at this point , she will be discharged onthat low dose of beta-blocker. otherwise , she was admitted oncoumadin with a inr of 2-3 for her st. jude's aortic valve. herinr was therapeutic on admission. this was actually discontinuedafter a couple of days in anticipation of a possible procedure.it was restarted three days prior to discharge. she was onheparin as a bridge for anticoagulation in the meantime. sheshould be continued on the heparin with a goal ptt of 50-70 untilher inr is therapeutic at 2-3 and this should be rechecked tomake sure that her inr remains therapeutic. her care wasdiscussed with her primary cardiologist , dr. sean mesa .4. endocrine: the patient has a history of type 2 diabetes.her diabetes was controlled with insulin nph 35 unitssubcutaneous every morning with a regular insulin sliding scaleevery 6 hours as well. this should be continued and fingersticksshould be done every 6 hours. the patient also has a history ofhypothyroidism. her thyroid stimulating hormone level waschecked and was found to be elevated at 14.5. her thyroidreplacement dose was increased from 75 mcg per day to 88 mcg aday. her thyroid stimulating hormone level should be checkedagain in four to six weeks and dose adjustment accordingly.5. pulmonary: the patient was continued on her mechanicalventilation. there were attempts at lower pressure support andeven spontaneously breathing trials. she was not able totolerate these for a long period of time , however , it does seemthat she has improved to some degree in terms of her ventilatorymechanics. she is currently on pressure support ventilation at15 of pressure support and 5 of positive end expiratory pressurewith an fio2 of 0.4. we believe that she could probably beweaned slowly to significantly decreased pressure support and ibelieve most likely she will be able at some point to be takenoff the ventilator , although this is certainly not certain. shewill be continued on her nebulizer treatments.6. nutrition: the patient was continued on tube feeds. she ison full strength nepro at 50 cc per hour. in addition , she isgetting vitamin c supplementation , ascorbic acid 500 mg by mouthtwo times a day , nephrocaps , zinc sulfate 220 mg by mouth dailyand these should be continued as indicated for her renal failureand wound healing.7. psychiatric: the patient was continued on her home dose offluoxetine 20 mg by g tube daily and on zyprexa 10 mg by g tubeat bedtime.8. prophylaxis: throughout her stay , the patient was continuedon her home esomeprazole 40 mg by g tube twice a day and for deepvenous thrombosis prophylaxis , her inr on coumadin remained above1.4 and her ptt was kept therapeutic on intravenous heparin.intravenous heparin should be continued with ptt checks onadmission and then every 6 hours unit they were fairly stablebetween 50 and 70 and that should be monitored at least dailyuntil her inr is stably therapeutic. it will be very importantto monitor her inr carefully while she is on levofloxacin aswell.9. access: the patient has a left-sided midline which wasplaced in mid 0/13 .  this should be removed within the nextone week and another line placed as preferred by therehabilitation physician. in addition , the patient's dialysiscatheter while functional does seem to have eroded through theskin below her clavicle. the hemodialysis service should beaware and consider replacement as indicated. at this point thereis no indication of infection of either of those lines , however ,she is at high risk of infection of both.10. renal: the patient was continued on her hemodialysis as perthe renal service. please feel free to contact dr. napoleon r lafevre , the patient's icu physician here at ciledall hospital with any questions you may have. as noted in thedictation , the patient should follow up within the next three tofour weeks with dr. mcniel of vascular surgery and also with theplastic surgery service.medications on discharge:1. vitamin c 500 mg by g tube two times a day.2. peridex mouthwash 15 ml twice a day.3. fluoxetine 20 mg by g tube daily.4. heparin intravenous 1050 units per hour , this will beadjusted based on her ptt from this morning which is not yetavailable.5. insulin nph 35 units subcutaneous every morning.6. insulin regular sliding scale subcutaneous q.6h. based onfingersticks.7. atrovent inhaler 8 puffs by ventilator q.6h.8. levoxyl 88 mcg by g tube daily.9. metoprolol 12.5 mg by g tube twice a day.10. dakin's solution one-quarter strength topical for 48 hourstwo times per day and then resume wet-to-dry dressings asdictated.11. ursodiol 600 mg by g tube daily.12. coumadin 4 mg by g tube q.p.m. , follow inr closely while onlevofloxacin.13. zinc sulfate 220 mg by mouth daily.14. simvastatin 10 mg by g tube at bedtime.15. olanzapine 10 mg by g tube at bedtime.16. levofloxacin 500 mg iv q.48h. through the date specifiedabove.17. nephrocaps one tab by g tube daily.18. miconazole powder to affected areas twice a day.19. keppra 500 mg by g tube daily and 250 mg supplemental doseby g tube after hemodialysis.20. esomeprazole 40 mg by g tube twice a day.21. panafil spray topical three times a day to heels withdressing changes.22. papain and urea topical three times a day , to only be usedfor those heels if panafil spray not available.escription document: 7-0624353 emssten telcc: quentin orville maki mdrevero angelesant kanelan street , harlh and hospitalmore arvdictated by: serafin , vernattending: fabros , heriberto clementedictation id 8331833d: 2/21/06t: 2/21/06[report_end]