184742191 | hmh | 11101800 | | 3536638 | 11/20/2005 12:00:00 am | congestive heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 11/20/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/15/2005attending: wuitschick , leroy m.d.principal diagnosis: heart failure.lists of problems and diagnoses: status post cardiac transplantin 1993 , obesity , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ,insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , chronic renal insufficiencywith a baseline of creatinine of 1.5 , hepatitis b , hypertension ,osteoporosis , status post l3 compression fracture , status postleft hip fracture with replacement in september 2005 , complicated byinfection necessitating removal , debridement , and deconditioning.brief history of present illness: ms. halnon is a 67-year-oldfemale with multiple medical comorbidities and a past medicalhistory significant for cardiac transplant in 1993 , and hipreplacement in september 2005 , complicated by wound infection , and needfor prolonged rehabilitation who presented from port medical center to ephma mersources ni memorial hospital with three days ofprogressive worsening shortness of breath. her chest x-ray wasconsistent with congestive heart failure , and she was transferredto ckmond kinga quinaualv medical center with the request of her daughterfor further management of her heart failure. here , her mentalstatus was borderline upon admission , but it improved withdiscontinuation of standing analgesic and decreasing of herclonazepam. a head ct showed no acute processes. she had aright upper arm cellulitis and urinary tract infection onscreening urinalysis. she was anemic. she was found to bevancomycin resistant enterococcus positive , but repeated culturesdemonstrated mrsa negative. her inpatient issues includedmanagement of her heart failure , right upper extremitycellulitis , urinary tract infection , chronic anemia , diabetes ,and evaluation of her hip by orthopedics.allergies: she had allergies to penicillin and codeine , but thereactions are unknown.medications on admission: vitamin c , imuran , phoslo , ironsulfate , deltasone , coumadin , aranesp , dilaudid for pain ,lactulose , reglan , sarna topical , senokot , ambien for sleep ,miconazole powder , cyclosporine , celexa , and lasix 80 mg once perday.physical examination: she was afebrile. her blood pressure was130/57 , and her pulse 120 in sinus tachycardia. she was 95%saturated on 3 liters. physical exam was significant forbibasilar crackles in her lungs. 2+ edema in her legs to herknees. a 5 cm x 5 cm area of warm erythema in her right upperextremity and a left hip wound with packing in place granulationtissue.operations and procedures: ct of her head , which showed no acuteprocesses. echocardiogram of her heart showed an ejectionfraction of 55%. normal right ventricle and structure with mildto moderately reduced systolic function in her right ventricle.moderately dilated left atrium , moderately dilated right atrium ,normal aortic valve , mild to moderate mitral regurgitation , andstructurally normal tricuspid valve. right upper arm ultrasound ,which showed no evidence of venous obstruction.hospital course by problem: ms. gockley 's inpatient issuesincluded management of her heart failure , right upper armextremity cellulitis , urinary tract infection , chronic anemia ,diabetes and evaluation of her hip by orthopedics. for her heartfailure , she was diuresed with iv and transitioned to oraltorsemide and they entered discharge dose of torsemide 200 mgp.o. twice per day. her admission weight was 133 kg and herdischarge weight 122 kg. she should continue on her currenttorsemide and limit her daily salt intake , and restrict herselfto 2 liters per day for her right upper extremity cellulitis.she was given a five-day course of levofloxacin ( used to addressrecurrent uti ) and then a two-day course of ancef , her cellulitiscleared with this regimen. for her urinary tract infection , shewas initially treated with levofloxacin and transitioned tobactrim based on antibiogram sensitivities. a long-term foleycatheter was removed. repeat cultures showed bacteria in herurine; however , she was clinically asymptomatic , it was felt thatthis is more consistent with colonization and no furthertreatment was instituted. if needed for further antibiotics , apicc line was placed on may , 2005 , after her prior piccline clotted. prior to discharge , a new foley catheter wasplaced and she was incontinent of urine and overall morecomfortable with catheter in place. while on bactrim for heruti , her creatinine rose to a peak of 2.0 , it was unclear whetherthis raise was due to diuresis or the antibiotic. with cessationof the antibiotic , her creatinine trended downward to herbaseline at 1.6. for her chronic anemia , the patient wascontinued on iron ( which was increased to three times per day )and darbepoetin , folate was added. she was asymptomatic from herchronic anemia. she was given two units of packed red bloodcells in may , 2005 , and two more units on february ,2005 , and she responded appropriately to this. her dischargehematocrit was 30. her hip was evaluated by orthopedics. theyfelt her hip was healing well. she should be continued onwet-to-dry dressings. no further orthopedic intervention isplanned. she can bear her full weight on her hip. at discharge ,the patient was hemodynamically stable , afebrile , and breathingcomfortably on three liters of oxygen. she was discharged tonaor viewmor hospital and should work aggressively towardsreconditioning.discharge medications: vitamin c 500 mg twice per day , imuran 25mg daily , phoslo 667 mg three times per day , clonazepam 0.25 mgtwice per day , cyclosporine 50 mg twice daily , colace 100 mgtwice daily , iron sulfate 325 mg three times per day , folate 1 mgdaily , dilaudid 2 mg every six hours as needed for pain , pleasehold this sedated for respirations less than 10 per minute ,insulin nph 14 units every evening , insulin nph 46 units everymorning , lactulose 30 ml four times per day as needed forconstipation , prednisone 5 mg every morning , sarna topical everyday apply to affected areas , multivitamin daily , coumadin 2.5 mgdaily , goal inr 2 to 3 , zinc sulfate 220 mg daily , ambien 5 mgbefore bed as needed for insomnia , torsemide 200 mg by mouth twotimes per day , fosamax 70 mg once per week , miconazole nitrate 2%powder topical two times per day apply to affected areas asneeded , advair diskus 250/50 one puff inhaled twice per day ,esomeprazole 20 mg once per day , duoneb 3/0.5 mg inhaled everysix hours as needed for shortness of breath , aranesp 50 mcgsubcutaneously once per week , novolog sliding scale before meals ,lexapro 20 mg once per day , maalox one to two tablets every sixhours as needed for upset stomach , and lipitor 20 mg once perday.outstanding issues: include following inr the goal of 2 to 3 ,following weight and clinical signs of volume overload , followingup on loose stools for possible clostridium difficile infection.following clinical signs for evidence of urinary tract infectiontreating with antibiotics as necessary.primary care physician: dr. rodolfo loveescription document: 4-3766097 sssten telcc: hyman footman m.d.delp coscotaence lasnewsbriddictated by: sinor , rogerattending: brasseaux , josephdictation id 5980185d: 10/4/05t: 10/4/05