admission date :2012-11-21discharge date :2012-11-28date of birth :1975-05-29sex :fservice :transplanthistory of present illness :this is a 37-year-old female who presents on an elective basis for a living-related kidney transplant .the patient has a history of end-stage renal failure secondary to type 1 diabetes with a baseline creatinine of around 5 .she is receiving a kidney from her sister .the patient has a history of hypertension , coronary artery disease , and insulin-dependent diabetes for 32 years .she is status post myocardial infarction in april of this year and subsequently underwent coronary artery bypass surgery .she present electively on the morning of her surgery with no recent changes in her medical problems .past medical history :1. sarcoidosis since 2001 .2. she is status post cholecystectomy .3. status post tubal ligation .4. status post left arteriovenous graft placement for hemodialysis .5. insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus times 32 years .6. hypertension .7. coronary artery disease , status post myocardial infarction in 2012-05-06 .8. end-stage renal disease , on hemodialysis for 1.5 years .allergies :allergies include amoxicillin and codeine .medications on admission:1. insulin by sliding-scale , nph insulin 16 units in the morning and 6 units in the evening .2. lipitor 20 mg p.o. q.d.3. zoloft 50 mg p.o. t.i.d.4. reglan 10 mg p.o. t.i.d.5. lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.6. aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.7. multivitamin 1 p.o. q.d.8. remeron p.o. q.d.social history :she is a half to one pack per day smoker for 10 years who quit approximately one week prior to her admission .she denies alcohol use .physical examination on admission :physical examination at the time of admission revealed she was in no acute distress .blood pressure was 150/79 , a pulse of 81 .she is legally blind .she was without any adenopathy .her chest was clear to auscultation .heart had a normal s1 and s2 , with no murmurs , gallops or rubs .her abdomen was soft with well-healed incisions .there was no organomegaly .extremities were without edema .she had a functioning arteriovenous fistula with a thrill and a bruit in her left arm .hospital course :the patient was admitted to the preoperative holding area and taken electively to the operating room .she underwent a living-related renal transplant in the right iliac fossa .the operation was somewhat technically difficult secondary to a short segment of ureter which was anastomosed over a stent to the bladder .otherwise , there were difficulties , and estimated blood loss was minimal .she was taken postoperatively to the recovery room already making a large amount of urine .intraoperatively , for immunosuppression she received thymoglobulin and solu-medrol .she was started on prograf and cellcept in the postoperative period .she was also maintained on bactrim postoperatively and did not require ganciclovir , as she and her sister were cytomegalovirus negative .the patient 's initial postoperative course was relatively uneventful .her creatinine , which was 5 initially postoperatively , slowly dropped over the next few days until eventually reaching a low of 1 .she did receive pamidronate on postoperative day one and received a total of four doses thymoglobulin .her steroid doses were slowly tapered over her hospital course , and her prograf level was adjusted to maintain therapeutic values between 10 and 15 .she continued to make good urine over the first few days and had her urine losses replaced with intravenous fluids .on postoperative day three , the patient had an episode of shortness of breath that was evaluated by both the renal and surgical residents .it was found that she was in acute pulmonary edema and required transfer to the surgical intensive care unit .her blood pressure at the time of this incident was in the range of 200/120 .her electrocardiogram showed no specific st changes , but there was some loss of her r wave progression laterally .serial enzymes were drawn , and cardiology was consulted .with blood pressure control via a nitroglycerin drip and fluid restriction , the patient quickly improved and a had a relatively short stay in the intensive care unit .throughout this time , her creatinine continued to drop , and there was no apparent deleterious effect on her transplant from this episode .her beta blocker was progressively increased , and her nitroglycerin drip was weaned down .two days after this event , she underwent an echocardiogram which was significant for slightly depressed left ventricular systolic function with severe posterior wall hypokinesis .this was a change from her prior echocardiogram and demonstrated evidence of a small myocardial infarction .clinically , she did much better and her blood pressure was optimized prior to discharge .she was transferred out of the intensive care unit on postoperative day five and was stable on the floor for the next two days .discharge disposition :she was set to be discharged to home on 11-28 , on postoperative day seven .medications on discharge:1. prograf 4 mg p.o. b.i.d. ( this may change depending on her most recent prograf level which will be drawn on the morning of 11-28 ) .2. prednisone 20 mg p.o. q.d.3. cellcept 1 mg p.o. b.i.d.4. bactrim 1 single-strength tablet p.o. q.d.5. zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.6. nph insulin 16 units q.a.m. and 6 units q.p.m.7. zoloft 175 mg p.o. q.d.8. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.9. reglan 10 mg p.o. t.i.d.10. percocet one to two tablets p.o. q.4-6h. p.r.n.11. lopressor 125 mg p.o. b.i.d.12. aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.13. cardizem-cd 180 mg p.o. q.d.discharge followup :follow-up appointments should be with dr. jones and dr. yost in the transplant clinic .furthermore , she needs a follow-up appointment with dr. miller of cardiology within the next two weeks .discharge status :the patient was discharged to home .condition at discharge :condition was good .discharge diagnoses :status post living-related renal transplant with perioperative small myocardial infarction .christina kinde , md46-131dictated by:lillian u walley , m.d.medquist36d :2012-11-2718:32t :2012-11-2812:49job# :09180( cclist )signed electronically by :dr. thomas rosier on :fri 2012-12-07 3:33 pm( end of report )