216653246 | mgh | 48023125 | | 500957 | 9/3/1998 12:00:00 am | osteoarthritis lt. hip | signed | dis | admission date: 4/10/1998 report status: signeddischarge date: 8/29/1998diagnosis: osteoarthritis - left hip , status post left total hipreplacement on 9/3/98 .history: ms. desoto is a 72-year-old woman with a history ofosteoarthritis , status post right total hip arthroplasty. shepresents now with end stage osteoarthritis of her left hip. heroriginal surgery was performed by dr. moffit . the patient currentlyreports that she is able to ambulate , but with difficulty evenusing a cane. she is only able to walk minimally and is not ableto walk one city block. she is unable to go outside of her home orup and down stairs at this time.past medical history: significant for urinary incontinence whichwas treated by her urologist , dr.bradford harps , with urised for two weeks prior to thisadmission. she is also status post right total hip arthroplasty inaugust 1997.allergies: the patient is allergic to sulfa.medications: ibuprofen on a p.r.n. basis and urised which shediscontinued just prior to being evaluatedpreoperatively.family history: noncontributory.social history: the patient is married and lives with her husbandat home.review of systems: the patient denies chest pain , nausea ,vomiting , fevers or chills. she has noshortness of breath. no orthopnea. she has no hematuria ordysuria. she does report urinary frequency secondary toincontinence.physical examination: on examination , blood pressure is 130/90 ,temperature is 98.8 with a pulse of 60 and arespiratory rate 16 , height 5'6" and weight of 180 lb. in general ,the patient is an elderly woman in no acute distress. skin showsno evidence of lesions. there is no evidence of lymphadenopathy.head , ears , eyes , nose and throat reveals pupils equal , round andreactive to light and accommodation with extraocular movementsintact. her neck is supple with no tenderness. her breasts haveno masses. her lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally.heart: regular rate and rhythm with no evidence of murmur , gallopor rub detected. her abdomen is soft , nontender and nondistendedwith no masses. neurologically , the patient is alert and orientedtimes three. cranial nerves ii-xii are intact. examination of theextremities shows sensation intact to light touch and pinprick inthe l1-s1 distributions. motor is 5/5 in the iliopsoas ,quadriceps , at , ehl , fhl and gs. she has palpable dorsalis pedisand posterior tibial pulses. her left hip range of motion hasflexion to 110 degrees. she has external rotation to 20 degreesand internal rotation to 15 degrees with pain. deep tendonreflexes are normal.hospital course: the patient was given a prescription for coumadinto be taken on the evening prior to her surgeryand was admitted on 5/23/98 at which time she underwent anduneventful left total hip replacement. she was treated withperioperative antibiotics and at the time of bladdercatheterization preoperatively , urinalysis and urine culture weresent. she was treated with perioperative antibiotics and wascontinued on coumadin postoperatively.on postoperative day #1 , hemovac drain was discontinued and herlaboratory values revealed a hematocrit of 29.6. she wastransfused with one unit of packed red blood cells. she didcomplain of some nausea related to her pain medications whichresolved after treatment with droperidol initially and thencompazine later. on postoperative day #2 , her dressing was takendown and the incision was noted to be clean , dry and intact with noevidence of erythema or discharge. on postoperative day #3 , shefailed a voiding trial and dr. hoganson from the urology departmentwas consulted. he recommended continued foley catheterization orintermittent catheterization for failure to void or for low outputincontinence , and further recommended suppression antibiotics inthe early post perioperative period. the patient was treated withvelosef 500 milligrams p.o. q.i.d. because of her sulfa drugallergy. on discharge , she was also given a prescription for sevendays of velosef.on postoperative day #4 , the patient was noted to be doing well.plans were made for her to be discharged to home with vna servicesfor wound checks , and physical therapy for gait training , partialweightbearing on the left lower extremity. the patient will alsohave pt and inr levels checked two times per week while at home.discharge medications: velosef 500 milligrams p.o. q.i.d. ,colace 100 milligrams p.o. b.i.d. , coumadinto keep a pt/inr between 1.5-2.0. we will begin treating her with2 milligrams p.o. q. h.s. , percocet 1-2 tablets p.o. q.4h. p.r.n.pain.discharge instructions: the patient was instructed to keep theincision clean and dry for five additionaldays and then was told that she may shower , but take no baths. shewas instructed to take the coumadin for 3-6 weeks for a pt/inr goalof 1.5-2.0. she was also instructed to continue the velosef forseven days as per dr. brueggemann recommendation. she was instructednot to drive until this was okay with dr. hallihan and she wasinstructed to remain partial weightbearing on the left lowerextremity. she was further instructed to follow up with dr. kolesnikin six weeks.complications during admission: none.condition: stable.disposition: home with vna services.dictated by: von cremona , m.d. xn309attending: gordon haptonstall , m.d. rk3  pa825/5016batch: 7413 index no. uzmpc05ch d: 7/3/98t: 2/19/98