331541352 | d | 63185945 | | 6072765 | 10/20/2005 12:00:00 am | intra abdominal abscess | signed | dis | admission date: 8/8/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/29/2005attending: esteban trachte mdattending physician:byron finnin , m.d.admitting diagnosis:intraabdominal abscess.history of present illness:the patient is a 77-year-old female with history of hypertensionand perforated sigmoid diverticulitis status post a partialcolectomy at the splenic flexure and hartmann pouch on 2/28/05 ,who presented at an outside hospital with chills and fevers oftemperature of 103 degrees fahrenheit , as well as shortness ofbreath and hypotension. the patient was transferred to theshire hospital for further care. she deniednausea , vomiting , and had only mild abdominal pain and abdominaldistension noted per the patient. however , her fevers and chillscontinued.past medical history:hypertension , chronic back pain , and nephrolithiasis.past surgical history:right total knee replacement , appendectomy , cholecystectomy , andpartial colectomy at the splenic flexure as noted above.medications:lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. , lisinopril 15 mg p.o. q.d. , lasix 40mg p.o. q.d. , aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. , albuterol nebulizerp.r.n. , zyprexa 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. , ms contin 15 mg to 30 mg p.o.b.i.d. , oxycodone as needed , and heparin subcutaneous t.i.d.allergies:no known drug allergies.social history:the patient presented after a brief stay for one week at councoovir catbelle medical center of .  she is the aunt of a pageway hospital cardiologist , dr. cavalli .physical examination:temperature is 98.8 , heart rate 94 , blood pressure 80/54 ,respiratory rate 18 , and oxygen saturation 95% on 2 liters nasalcannula. in general , the patient was in no acute distress. herchest was clear to auscultation bilaterally without any evidenceof wheezes. the heart was regular rate and rhythm with s1 , s2normal with 3/6 systolic murmur. abdomen was soft and obese.mild tenderness of the inferior aspect of her ostomy stoma. norebound tenderness was noted. the stoma color was normal. therewas gas and stool in the stoma bag. her midline abdominalincision was open with pink granulation tissue. extremities werenotable for only trace pitting edema.laboratory data:chemistry: sodium 139 , potassium 5.0 , chloride 100 , bicarbonate34 , bun 25 , creatinine 0.8 , and glucose 187. liver enzymes: ast8 , alt 13 , alkaline phosphatase 89 , and t-bili 0.2 , and lacticacid 1.2. cbc: white blood cell count 13.5 , hematocrit 31.3 ,and platelets 513 , 000. cardiac enzymes were normal with the ckof 33 and mb fraction of 1.2. troponin was less than assay. ekgshowed left anterior fascicular block and sinus rhythm.imaging:ct of the abdomen showed a 6 cm x 2 cm left-sided intraabdominalfluid collection and a 4.2 cm fluid collection around the stoma ,which both were seemed to as consistent with abscess formation.hospital course:the patient was admitted to the windreal claall onli medical center surgical service on1/12/05 for management of her intraabdominal abscesses as acomplication of recently performed partial colectomy and hartmannpouch for perforated diverticulitis. she was started on ivantibiotics with vancomycin , levofloxacin , and flagyl. bysystems.neuro: the patient had intermittent issues with pain control ,which were managed by putting the patient on oral narcotic agentsas well as fentanyl patch. this seemed to help the patient'spain. the patient also had an episode of altered mental status ,which was believed to be due to pulmonary issues of co2 retentionas noted below. for this reason , the patient had beentransferred to the icu for 24-hour period observation , and at thetime of discharge , the patient was in adequate mental statuscommunicating effectively and at her baseline. otherwise , noissues at the time of discharge , except for pain control , beingmanaged by narcotic agents.cardiovascular: the patient was stable throughout herhospitalization. however , it was notable at the time of herprevious admission that the patient would need to undergo anechocardiogram within one to two weeks. for this reason , thepatient underwent an echocardiogram during her hospitalizationand was found to have normal ejection fraction of 65%. therewere no regional wall motion abnormalities noted. her aorticvalve showed trace aortic insufficiency and the patient also hadmild degree of aortic stenosis with the valve of 1.4 cm squared.her mitral valve was shown to have some degree of mitralregurgitation and the patient also had some tricuspidregurgitation as well. her right ventricle was seemed to be okayand she did have some evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy.no evidence of gross cardiac dysfunction.pulmonary: the patient on hospital day #6 was found to havealtered mental status in the evening. an abg was checked , whichshowed a ph of 7.42 , pco2 of 61 , and po2 of 58 , 92% oxygensaturation on 3 to 4 liters with the base access of 12. for thisreason , it was determined that the patient would need to beadmitted to the surgical icu for further monitoring of herpulmonary status. she was taken to the icu and admitted there.during her icu course , the patient was placed on bipap , whicheffectively brought her bicarbonate and her pco2 levels down.this did effectively decrease her pco2. hence by hospital day#8 , the patient was transferred back to the floor in stablecondition. from her pulmonary standpoint , the patient continuedto have some degree of bibasilar crackles during herhospitalization. however , given her otherwise stable status , thepatient was encouraged to perform and sent to spirometry andlasix was withheld during the later course of her hospitalcourse. at the time of discharge , the patient was with adequateoxygen saturation sating 97% on 1 liter at the time of discharge.gi: the patient had no trouble eating regular diet during herhospital course. her ostomy continued to function well with thestoma pink and healthy. she did have two intraabdominalabscesses , which were drained on hospital day #2 byinterventional radiology. two ir catheters were placed and thesewere left in place until the output was deemed to be minimal , anda ct scan was performed as well as an abscessogram , both of whichreveled that the fluid collections had resolved. hence onhospital day #10 , the patient's interventional radiology drainswere discontinued without complications. at the time ofdischarge , the patient was stable with a soft abdomen and noevidence of infection. the patient did have a midline abdominalincision open with pink granulation tissue , healing well. thepain was treated with wet-to-dry normal saline dressing , b.i.d.to t.i.d.gu: the patient continued to have good urine output during herhospital course. she did require foley placement from adequatemonitoring of her urine output at 1.8. urinalysis , as well asurine culture was sent , which revealed yeast greater than 100 , 000yeast , not candida albicans. she was started on a five-daycourse of fluconazole and her foley catheter was discontinued fortreatment of this infection. at the time of discharge , thepatient was urinating adequate amounts independently without anyissues.heme: the patient's hematocrit remained stable during herhospital course. however , during her stay in the icu , hematocritwas found to be 27 and the patient received 1 unit of packed redblood cells without any complications or events. at the time ofdischarge , the patient's hematocrit was found to be 43 withoutany event. she continued to receive subcutaneous heparin t.i.d.for dvt prophylaxis.id: the patient was placed on vancomycin , levofloxacin , andflagyl during her hospital course for the intraabdominalabscesses. fluconazole was also added for the treatment of aurinary tract infection with the yeast. the antibiotics werecontinued until the drains were removed on hospital day #10. onhospital day #10 , the patient was transitioned to levofloxacin ,which is to be continued for a 10-day total course benign1/27/05 , 10 further days of levofloxacin required for adequatecovered. however , it should be noted that the ir drains werefound to be negative and only revealed purulent fluid. gramstain was indicative of sterile purulent fluid. cultures werenegative.tubes , lines , and drains: as noted above , the patient had theplacement of two interventional radiology drains , which werediscontinued prior to discharge. at the time of discharge , thepatient has no foley and no ir drains in place.medications at the time of discharge:tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. pain , albuterol nebulizes 2.5 mgnebulizer q.4h. p.r.n. wheezing , aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. , pepcid20 mg p.o. b.i.d. , fentanyl patch 25 mcg patch q.72h. , heparin5000 units subcutaneous t.i.d. , lisinopril 50 mg p.o. q.d. ,lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. , hold for systolic blood pressureless than 100 and heart rate less than 55 , multivitamins withminerals one tablet p.o. q.d. , zyprexa 2.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. ,levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d. x13 more doses starting 5/15/05 .disposition:the patient is discharged to pa medical center for further management. the patient was given adequateinstructions for her further care and the same was passed on tonacch .  the patient is to receive dressing changes ,physical therapy assistance , and ostomy care. the patient shouldfollow up with dr. colestock in one to two weeks for furthersurgical management follow up and should also be seen by dr.walter soltero for her cardiovascular follow up.escription document: 4-8828080 emssten teldictated by: cowgill , thomasattending: mohre , nevilledictation id 0749531d: 5/15/05t: 5/15/05