055398212 | fh | 16337084 | | 5385680 | 1/17/2006 12:00:00 am | pneumonia | unsigned | dis | admission date: 2/24/2006 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 8/9/2006attending: dupes , fernando b.team: s terchu fayprincipal diagnosis: the condition responsible for causing thisadmission is pneumonia.list of other problems and diagnoses: copd , cad , diabetes type2 , hypertension , tia , tvd , psoriasis.brief history of present illness: this is a 70-year-old femalewith end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis , copd , diabetes type2 who was admitted with dyspnea and tachycardia on the 10/28/06.the patient reported a history of cough with productive sputum x3days and chest pain pleuritic in nature. she denied any nausea ,vomiting , any bowel or bladder symptoms. she denied headache ,fatigue , anorexia. per her family , the patient had a fever to103 and some confusion while reportedly at home. in theemergency department at re memorial hospital , she was tachypneic to the 40ssating upper 80s on room air and had a fingerstick glucose of 30.an abg was consistent with a respiratory acidosis , ph of 7.3 ,pco2 of 55 , po2 of 63 , sating 89% on 2 l. an admission chestx-ray demonstrated an opacity at the left base. an ekg showedsome left-sided strain unchanged from prior. she receivedazithromycin and ceftriaxone in the emergency department as wellas vancomycin and was started on bipap and transferred to themicu. in the micu , she was treated as a copd flare withsteroids , antibiotics , and nebulizers , however , the patient beganto tire and developed worsening hypercarbic respiratory failureso was intubated on the night of the admission and extubated fivedays later. over the course of her micu admission , she developedafib and had a troponin leak. otherwise , the stay wasunremarkable and she extubated without complication andtransferred to the gms services on 4/8/06.past medical history: end-stage renal disease on hemodialysismonday , wednesday and friday. the renal failure is secondary torenal artery stenosis. hemodialysis began in april 2005.diabetes type 2 with hemoglobin a1c of 5.8. copd , no pfts areavailable. hypertension. coronary artery disease with historyof remote mi , diastolic dysfunction/chf. tia for which shereceives coumadin. bilateral fem-pop bypasses , psoriasis and aperforated appendix.home medications: glyburide 5 b.i.d. , lipitor 10 , phoslo 667t.i.d. , zestril 60 nightly , toprol-xl 200 , coumadin 4 mg , aspirin81 , iron t.i.d. , paxil 10 , nephrocaps daily , flovent andcombivent doses unknown.transfer medications to the gms service: diltiazem 90 p.o.q.i.d. , lopressor 37.5 q.i.d. , aspirin , albuterol , phoslo ,colace , pepcid , insulin nph 15 units b.i.d. , nicotine patch ,nystatin , prednisone taper , betamethasone , captopril 50 t.i.d. ,coumadin 2 , simvastatin 20 , an aspart sliding scale and p.r.n.lactulose , zyprexa and ativan.allergies: she has no known drug allergies.social history: she is an active smoker , smokes about a pack anda half a day for the past 55 years. lives with her daughter , has9 children.physical exam upon transfer to the gms service: weight 92.9 ,temperature is 96.2 , heart rate 118 afib , bp 107/57 , sating 95%on 2 l. in general , she appeared younger than stated age. shehad a psoriatic rash on her right thigh. neuro exam , she washard of hearing , otherwise her cranial nerves were intact and shewas alert and oriented x3. head and neck exam notable for jvp of5 cm of water. mucous membranes were moist. her oropharynx wasclear. her extraocular motions were full. her cardiac exam , shehad a regular rhythm without appreciable murmurs , rubs orgallops , no heaves. lungs , she had expiratory wheezing withoutrhonchi or crackles. abdomen , although distended but soft , nolaparotomy scar , normoactive bowel sounds without guarding. shehad a port-a-cath in her right chest that appeared clean , dry andintact. extremities , she had teds and scds , bilateral pedaledema , they were warm.hospital course by problem:1. from a pulmonary standpoint: pneumonia/copd flare. the patient wasadmitted with pneumonia and copd flare for which she needed to be intubated andhad a short micu stay. she did well on antibiotics and waschanged from ceftriaxone , azithromycin , and vancomycin tolevofloxacin which she completed a ten-day course. she alsostarted on steroid taper and will leave with 20 mg of prednisonefor two more days and then 10 mg of prednisone for three days.upon transfer to the floor , she was restarted on combivent andflovent and received p.r.n. albuterol nebulizers and albuterolinhaler on a q.4 basis. smoking cessation was emphasized withthe patient. ace consult was called and the nicotine patch wascontinued. she was given a flu vaccine while in the hospital.the blood cultures and sputum cultures were unrevealing and hero2 saturation was titrated to greater than 93%.2. from an endocrine perspective she had a history of diabetestype 2. she was fleetingly placed on portland protocol while inmicu and then transferred to nph 15 b.i.d. insulin and novologsliding scale. she should continue her aspirin and ace inhibitoras an outpatient and later her hemoglobin a1c was consistent withvery well controlled diabetic.3. from a cardiovascular standpoint:a. ischemia. her troponin peaked to 0.38 on 11/22/06 while inthe micu. it was not associated with any dynamic ekg changes ,however , her ekg does show some evidence of strain versusinfralateral ischemia with t-waves inversions in the inferior andlateral leads. her troponin trended down over the course of theadmission and on last check were less than 0.2. there was aquestion of whether this leak was due to volume overload versusinfection. her aspirin , statin , beta-blocker , and ace werecontinued. her fasting lipid profile was remarkable only forhypertriglyceridemia and hdl of 38. she is scheduled for aoutpatient nuclear medicine stress test on 8/13/06 at 09:00 a.m.b. rate. she was noted to be in afib on the micu and rate wascontrolled with diltiazem and lopressor titrated to heart rate of80 , she was monitored on tele over the course of admission. shewas already in coumadin for tias , however , the new inr goal forher is between 2 and 3 and coumadin levels should be checked atthe time of dialysis.c. pump. her ef was 55% on echo that was done while in themicu. there is some evidence of aortic sclerosis , otherwise ,there is no hypokinesis or wall motion abnormalities noted.4. from a hematologic standpoint , she was started on epopoietinfor anemia of chronic disease. her baseline hematocrit of 35dropped to 26 while in the micu and she received a unit of bloodfor that. following that transfusion , her hematocrit was stablein the lower to mid 30s. she was also restarted on iron , whichshe takes as an outpatient. her stool is guaiac negative overthe course of the admission.5. from a gi perspective , the patient had a mild transaminitisnoted while in the micu thought likely secondary to hepaticcongestion. viral serologies were drawn including hep b and c ,which were negative. her transaminitis resolved on its own.6. from a dermatologic perspective , the patient has a history ofpsoriasis. she was continued on topical steroids with goodeffect.7. from an infectious disease standpoint , this patient hasevidence of pneumonia by clinical exam and chest x-ray onadmisison , which appeared to be resolved. she completed aten-day course of levofloxacin. in addition , multiple cultureswere taken while in the micu including that from the a line whichgrew out coag-negative staph thought likely to be a contaminate.8. neuro exam , she was alert and oriented and intact upontransfer to the medical service. for history of tias hercoumadin was continued.9. fen. the patient was started on a renal diabetic low-fatdiet and was fluid restricted to 2 l a day.10. renal. the patient is on dialysis monday , wednesday , andfriday for end-stage renal disease secondary to ras. she isfollowed by renal and had a renal attending during the course ofthis hospitalization. she was started on neutra-phos ,nephrocaps , and her phoslo was continued. her calcium andphosphorus were monitored q.a.m. and her ipth was checked and was415.11. prophylaxis. heparin was continued subcu until her inr wastherapeutic. she still is on vre precautions for a positiverectal swab.she was a full code.discharge medications will be included as an addendum.primary care physician: dr. scadden at ccmhescription document: 2-1030834 cssten teldictated by: laaker , calvinattending: getty , karldictation id 2025908d: 5/18/06t: 5/18/06