admission date :2015-09-14discharge date :2015-09-19service :neonatologyhistory of present illness :the patient is a 3285 gm infant born at 37 5/7 weeks to a 21 year old g3 p1 now 2 mother with prenatal screens as follows :o positive , antibody negative , hepatitis b surface antigen negative , rpr nonreactive , gbs negative .unremarkable pregnancy except for minor fullness of the left renal pelvis reported during the week prior to delivery .past ob history remarkable for postpartum depression .mother was admitted in labor .baby was delivered by repeat c-section with rupture of membranes at delivery .apgars were 8 and 9 .cmed csru staff was called about 30 minutes of age for grunting , flaring and retractions and the baby was admitted to the cmed csru .hospital course:1. respiratory .the athol memorial hospital hospital course was initially consistent with transient tachypnea of the newborn .chest x-ray revealed mild streakiness of the lung fields .he was initially placed on nasal cannula with subsequent resolution of respiratory distress .nasal cannula was weaned off on day of life 3 and he initially was maintaining o2 sat above 94% and breathing comfortably .he was subsequently placed back on nasal cannula for mild oxygen desaturation and was requiring 25 c/min flow at the time of discharge .no apneic or brady episodes .2. cardiovascular .the patient 's cardiovascular status has been stable throughout his cmed csru stay .no murmur on exam .3. fen .the patient had been tolerating oral feeding as of day of life 2 and is currently taking enfamil 20 p.o. ad lib .he has been weaned off iv fluids and has been maintaining good blood glucose .his birth weight was 3285 gm .his weight is 3015 gm on day of life 5 .4. gi .the patient 's bilirubin level at 24 hours of life was 4.6.no phototherapy was started .5. id .the patient was not started on antibiotics , given lack of sepsis risk factors .his initial cbc showed no left shift .blood culture had remained no growth to date .6. heme .the patient 's initial hematocrit was 35.8 .no transfusion during this admission .condition on transfer :the patient has been doing well on low flow nasal cannula. he has been tolerating p.o. ad lib feeds .