record #611587789335485 | gpmhc | 36882108 | | 599874 | 6/18/2002 12:00:00 am | cellulitis | signed | dis | admission date: 7/15/2002 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/24/2002admission diagnosis: lower extremity venous stasis withsuperimposed cellulitis.discharge diagnosis: lower extremity venous stasis withsuperimposed cellulitis , resolved.service: general medical copeoconsults obtained: infectious disease and dermatology.history: the patient is a 56 year old woman with chronic venousstasis complicated by psychiatric history , chronicnoncompliance , and visits to multiple care providers , readmittedfor painful , swollen , red , right lower extremity. the patient hada previous episode of cellulitis of the right lower extremity inaugust of 2002 treated at istspauld health with clindamycin ,leading to a clostridium difficile colitis; previous episodesresolved entirely. the patient now returned with a one weekhistory of increasing symptoms of the right lower extremity. shereported positive subjective fevers as well as chills. she deniednausea , vomiting , bright red blood per rectum , melena or chestpain. the patient does report chronic abdominal pain , positivedyspnea on exertion , but no dysuria.physical examination: temperature is 98.2 , pulse 87 , bloodpressure 134/69 , respirations 20/minute ,oxygen saturation 95% on room air. physical examination reveals amorbidly obese middle aged female in no acute distress. thepatient is alert and oriented. speech , however , is pressured andtangential. the left lower extremity is remarkable for 1+ edemaand brawny hyperpigmentation below the knee. the right lowerextremity is erythematous and shiny below the knee with 2+ edema.the extremity is very tender to the touch. on admission whiteblood cell 8.6 , urinalysis 4+ squamous. a right lower extremityx-ray revealed no bony abnormalities. chest x-ray showed noinfiltrates.hospital course: from an i.d. standpoint , cellulitis was treatedwith ancef without improvement. based on inputfrom the infectious disease service the patient was switched tointravenous vancomycin on november blood cultures were negativefrom february a repeat urinalysis was negative. a dermatologyconsult was obtained on january and gave an impression ofcellulitis secondary to venous insufficiency and obesity andpossible tinea pedis. the consult recommended discontinuingnystatin and triamcinolone with use of spectazole and miconazolebetween the toes on lower legs and inframammary b.i.d. on march infectious disease saw the patient and confirmed the impressionof cellulitis. they also voiced concern for adequate dosing ofvancomycin given the patient's size and to properly cover nonstaphylococcal etiologies. the vancomycin dose was increased to1.5 gram iv q. 12 hours and then to q. eight hours. on the 3 of february offebruary the dorsum of the left foot was draining a serous fluid. atthe time a ct was also obtained which was negative for any fluidcollections. debridement was not recommended at that time. thepatient at that time was still receiving levaquin. dermatology sawthe patient on march once more and supported the diagnosis ofchronic venous stasis. from a hematologic standpoint , thebeginning of this day , the patient received lower extremity ,noninvasive imaging to rule out deep venous thrombosis. these werenegative for deep venous thrombosis. from a psychiatric standpointthe patient has an undifferentiated psychiatric disorder , mostpossibly bipolar with a manic component but refused to see psychand instead insisted on taking dexedrine for a claimed diagnosis ofnarcolepsy. in the absence of prescription , the patient reportedlytook her own medications while in the hospital. the mental statusexamination is significant for pressured speech , tangential innature and evidence of poor short-term memory. the patient lacksany suicidal or homicidal ideation and does not appear to have anypsychotic component. from a cardiovascular and fluid standpoint ,lasix diuresis was attempted and a foley catheter was placed.given that all of the involved sources believed that the mostfundamental cause for the patient's symptoms was fluid overload andvenous insufficiency in the lower extremities , aggressive diuresiswas continued , leading ultimately to a dose of 80 mg of lasixb.i.d. an echocardiogram on march showed right ventriculardilatation without any compromise in function. from amusculoskeletal standpoint the patient did suffer a fall whilestanding on july she had no head trauma. she did complainof some right knee pain without functional impairment. there wasno instability in the joint. the patient also later complained ofpain in the right foot , which he complained resulted from the fall.however three views from the foot showed no evidence of fracture ofsignificant soft tissue disease. a chronic issue during thepatient's stay was her refusal to look forward to discharge despiteevidence that her acute issues had corrected and that improvementof her chronic underlying condition would require comprehensivetherapy on a home and outpatient basis. by the 1 of october thepatient's cellulitis had resolved and this had been confirmed byinfectious disease reconsult. at that point only stasis dermatitiscontinued. the vancomycin was therefore discontinued afteradequate antibiotic course. on july the lower extremitycontinued to show improvement. on november the patient wasdeemed ready for discharge. she was advanced to continue lasix at80 mg p.o. b.i.d. with potassium at 60 meq p.o. per day to replaceany losses. other meds were prescribed as before. the patient wasalso sent home with ketoconazole for a short course and a smallsupply of oxycodone to control her pain until she could follow-upwit her new outpatient provider dr. law at ganco wo medical center theplan was to leave the patient's foley catheter in because she hadpersistent problems with urinary incontinence which predates thishospital admission. the patient plans to see urogynecologist , dr.mihalko for this problem. we arranged outpatient follow-upappointments for the patient with both of these doctors , dr. stechlinskiand dr. mccarter on june all of the information wascommunicated verbally to the patient. the patient was advised totake all medications as directed. we emphasized that it's veryimportant for her to elevate her legs regularly and to try to limitsoft drink intake as this was likely contributing to the swellingin her legs. she was instructed to weight herself daily and tocontact her primary care physician if her weight was steadilyincreasing. we advised her to seek medical attention for fever ,increased redness or new pronounced swelling in her legs , anynumbness or tingling in her legs , new skin ulcers or any otherconcerns.medications on discharge: betoptic s eye drops 0.25% to the righteye one drop b.i.d. , klonopin 1 mg p.o.q.h.s. , lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. , potassium chloride slow release 60meq p.o. daily , albuterol and ipratropium nebulizer inhaler 3/0.5mg q 4-6h p.r.n. shortness of breath or wheezing.dictated by: willie buster puskar , m.d. mv049attending: colin thody , m.d. fv88sl248/632126batch: 98151 index no. g4cr74x2z7 d: 4/1/02t: 0/9/02cc: dr. oakey , ton of hospital[report_end]