491962040 | vmc | 71849528 | | 3118849 | 10/10/2007 12:00:00 am | seroma | | dis | admission date: 10/17/2007 report status:discharge date: 8/1/2007 final discharge orders guidice , antony 964-00-11-9hahaybrid ingdown modebeau balt rouge epa room: leygilb woodporservice: oncdischarge patient on: 8/8/07 at 04:30 amcontingent upon ho evaluationwill d/c order be used as the d/c summary: yesattending: lovetinsky , nelson g. , m.d.code status:full codedisposition: homemedications on admission:1. acetaminophen 650 mg po q4h2. hydromorphone hcl 2 mg po qpm3. ibuprofen 600 mg po tidmedications on discharge:tylenol ( acetaminophen ) 650 mg po q4h prn headachecolace ( docusate sodium ) 100 mg po bidibuprofen 600 mg po q6h prn painfood/drug interaction instruction take with foodmsir ( morphine immediate release ) 5-10 mg po q4hprn paindiet: no restrictionsreturn to work: immediatelyfollow up appointment( s ):dr. zaborowski ,deangelo solymani ( ortho oncology ) ,allergy: nkaadmit diagnosis:uterine cancer , iliopsoas seromaprincipal discharge diagnosis ;responsible after study for causing admission )seromaother diagnosis;conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment/stayh/o clear cell uterine canceroperations and procedures:iliopsoas drain placementother treatments/procedures ( not in o.r. )mri/mrv of the abdomenbrief resume of hospital course:hpi: patient is a 64 yo woman with clear cell uterine ca originallydiagnosed in 9/22 - now status post hysterectomy , radiation , cycles ofcarboplatin and taxol and then single agent doxil given myelosupressionand thrombocytopenia. she presents with progression of left lowerextremity edema and groin pain. multiple studies have revleaed aniliopsoas fluid collection which was drained recently andpreviously revelaed atypical cells and were thought consistet withradiation effect. on 8/28 she underwent an u/s of the lle which wasnegative for dvt , but a cystic struction was again noted in theiliopsoas and the patient noted that her leg increased in size and shehad worsening groin pain. she was admitted for drainage , pain controland imaging. ---pmh: hypercholesterolemia , oa -----meds: ibuprofen prn , tylenol prn , dilaudidprn -----allergies: nkda -------status: afebrile , vss , lle edematous and tense , rrr , cta b/l. abdbenign. drain left groin draining serosanguinous fluid.--------key studies:u/s 8/28 11.5x5.5x2.7 cyctic structure in left iliopsoasmra/mrv/mri: mra: normal aorta , proximal segments of celiac trunk , sma ,bilateral solitary renal arteries are widely patient. the common external ,internal iliac arteries wiedely patent , ima not well visualized.mrv: ivc , bilateral renal veins , bilateral iliac and femoral veins arepatient. left iliac and proximal superficial femoral vein are small incaliber due to compression by ?seroma. no thrombus idenitifiedother finding: liver , spleen , bilateral adrenal glands are unremarkable.kidneys are normal in size , symmetric perfusion. large fluid collectionin the l iliopsoas from the sacroiliac joint to the insertion of theiliopsoas.------hospital course/a&p1. lle edema and groin pain: given pain and fluid reaccumulation drainplaced by ir 9/9 and removed 11/8 fluid was sterile with no evidence ofinfection. drain was removed due to a concern for the risk of infectionof a sterile fluid collection , particularly given it's relative proximityto a joint and the risks that could be associated with a joint infectionin this woman. as per ir's recommendations , we asked our colleagues inorthopedics to participate in this patient's care. they had norecommendations for the short term given that her fluid collection hadbeen drained and she was pain free. recommended that she could follow upwith dr. gene alban in orthopedic oncology if her pain/fluid collectionrecurs.2. pain control: patient's pain was well controlled by iv morphine ( 2mgq4-6 hrs ) after drain placement- only required one day of iv morphine.following drainage of the fluid collection she noted that she was muchmore comfortable and was well controlled with ibuprofen and low dose msir( minimal requirement ). will be discharged with prescription for msirshould her pain recur.3. prophylaxis: patient received one dose of therapeutically dosedlovenox pending the read of the mri - then switched to prophylactic dosedlovenox.patient remained full code throughout this hospitalizationadditional comments: if you have worsening of your leg/groin pain , you should contact youroncologist.if you have fevers or chill , nausea/vomiting , or shortness of breath , youshould contct your physicianyou were treated for a seroma/hematoma adjacent to your iliopsoas muscle.there was no evidence of infection based on the fluid collected from thisdrainage. if the pain you were having recurs , or your leg edema worsens ,you should contact your primary oncologist to determine the futuretreatment plan. you were seen by orthopedic surgery during this admission- their recommendation was that nothing needed to be done acutely and thatyou could follow up with dr. clifton walkner for further evaluation if youare interested.discharge condition: satisfactoryto do/plan:f/u with kenton babic - ortho onc if needed. f/u final results ofcytology/gram stain for drained fluid.no dictated summaryentered by: bobsin , filiberto p. , m.d. ( lr29 ) 8/8/07 @ 04 end of discharge orders