886997886 | sh | 84748264 | | 020719 | 5/17/1995 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 9/2/1995 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/21/1995history of present illness: patient is a 42 year old female with ahistory of variegate porphyria ,insulin dependent diabetes , coronary artery disease , status postcoronary artery bypass graft , and hypercholesterolemia who hadexperienced five days of confusion , weakness , change in bowelhabits , and fatigue with flashing sensations of anxiety withemotional lability. patient had a history of variegate porphyriafor about fifteen years , was followed by dr. nigel wickenhauser , and shehad been relatively free of porphyria attacks with the last majorone approximately twelve years ago with symptoms similar to thoseshe was experiencing at the time of this admission. in april1994 , she had a mild porphyria attack which was managed by stopping allher medications. she intermittently had skin lesions ,especially with sun exposure. she had never been phlebotomized orreceived other treatments. in the past two months , she had beentaking ativan of 3-4 mg q.d. for anxiety. she stopped takingativan on january , 1995 and after this abrupt stopping of thismedication , she started to have feelings of disorientation ,confusion , and fatigue with emotional lability. she also was inidaho with extensive sun exposure in the last two weeks. shecontacted dr. furuya who advised her to increase her carbohydrateintake to about 400 grams a day , however , her symptoms progressed.two days prior to admission , she felt weak and while standing , herlegs gave way without losing consciousness. she felt weakthroughout the week before admission with no vertigo , tinnitus , orataxia. she also felt paresthesias of the hands and feet but notperioral and she also experienced episodes of flushing andtremulousness with a feeling of rushing sensation in the chest withno tachycardia associated at the time of this symptomatology. shehad no fevers with the sensation of flushing and feeling of burningup. she had several bouts of diarrhea intermingled withconstipation. on the day of admission , patient became confused anddisoriented while driving and she came to see dr. heyn in thevvh clinic. she was admitted for evaluation of a possibleporphyria attack. of note , the only new medications that she hadbeen taking was chloral hydrate for the last five days andcompazine with one dose.past medical history: 1 ) insulin dependent diabetes. 2 )coronary artery disease status post ptcatimes two and a coronary artery bypass graft of the left anteriordescending in 6/25 exercise tolerance test was noted beforecatheterization and she had a catheterization in 1/10 for angina.she had a patent lima graft , 60% proximal left anterior descendinglesion , and 50% right coronary artery stenosis. 3 )hypercholesterolemia , did not tolerate cholestyramine. 4 ) statuspost left ulna entrapment release two months ago. 5 )hypertension. 6 ) status post excisional biopsy of the left breast; thepathology of the lesion was diabetic mastopathy.allergies: morphine which gave her a rash and patient avoidedmultiple medications which were known to worsenporphyria such as sulfa drugs ( not allgergies )current medications: at home , patient took insulin nph 25 units inthe morning with regular 10 units in themorning , aspirin 81 mg q.d. , lopressor 25 mg b.i.d. , compazine 5 mgq.6h. p.r.n. anxiety of which she took only one dose , and chloralhydrate 500 to 1000 mg q.h.s. for five days.social history: patient was married for fifteen years with oneson and no history of smoking or ethanol use.physical examination: patient was a pale and anxious white femalein no apparent distress with a temperatureof 99.5 , blood pressure 134/70 , heart rate of 92 , respiratory rateof 18 , and o2 saturation of 97% on room air. heent: examinationwas significant for oropharynx with upper dentures and sclerae wereanicteric. neck: supple with no jugular venous distention , nolymphadenopathy , and thyroid was not palpable. chest: clear toauscultation bilaterally with no costovertebral angle tenderness.breasts: examination was notable for fully healed scar of the leftbreast. cardiovascular: examination showed a regular rate andrhythm , normal s1 and s2 , and 2/6 systolic murmur heard best atthe apex. abdomen: soft with good bowel sounds , non-tender , andnon-distended. extremities: 1+ pedal pulses bilaterally and noclubbing , cyanosis , or edema. skin: examination showed a blisterof the left hand fourth and fifth digit interspace and healedlesions on the right hand. neurological: examination showed herto be alert and oriented times three with a normal mental statusexamination with no confusion noted. cranial nerves were intact ,motor was symmetric of 3-4/5 on all muscle groups , sensoryexamination was significant for decrease to light touch in thedistal feet and hands , deep tendon reflexes were symmetric and 1-2+throughout , and coordination showed rapid alternating movements andfinger-to-nose both within normal limits. gait was mildly widebased with normal heel-to-toe walk , she had no pronator drift , andromberg was positive.laboratory examination: on admission was significant for a bun of17 , creatinine of 1.0 , glucose was 364 ,liver function tests were within normal limits , white count was7.2 , hematocrit was 36 , and platelet count was 266.hospital course: patient was admitted for possible porphyriaattack versus ativan withdrawal symptoms versusanxiety attack. neurology consultation was obtained who felt thatpatient's peripheral neuropathy was probably secondary tolongstanding diabetes but felt that some of her symptomatologycould be consistent with porphyria. patient was also seen bypsychiatry who felt that this episode was consistent withgeneralized anxiety disorder separated by post dysthymia andsuggested phenothiazines which are proven to be safe in porphyriafor treatment. she was started on trilafon 2 to 4 mg p.o. p.r.n.q.6h. for anxiety. the patient was also seen to be orthostaticwhich was felt to be secondary to dehydration secondary to poorp.o. intake prior to admission. she was also hyperglycemic onadmission which may have contributed to her dehydration. she wastreated with normal saline boluses and her orthostasis improved.her lopressor was also held with this episode of orthostasis. thewatson-schwartz test done by dr. mohar on patient very early in the admissionwas negative which made an acute porphyria attack veryunlikely. these episodes were felt to be secondary to acombination of anxiety attack and rapid taper of ativan which shehad been taking at moderately high doses for the last two months.patient also developed urinary tract infection symptoms and herurine culture showed greater than 100 , 000 colonies of e. coli whichwere pansensitive. she was started on keflex 500 mg p.o. t.i.d.which is shown to be safe in porphyria.disposition: patient is discharged to home on july in goodcondition.discharge medications: aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. , insulin nph 25units subcutaneously q.a.m. , insulinregular 10 units subcutaneously q.a.m. , trilafon 2 mg p.o. q.6h. ,and keflex 500 mg p.o. t.i.d.follow-up: follow-up will be with dr. dario rodriquzdictated by: bernard sypolt , m.d. ad9attending: jasper e. fido , m.d. nq5dl409/8702 batch: 80499index no. rrxzkl52ac d: 4/18/95t: 2/26/95addendum: her 24 hour urinary porphobilinogen and delta-aminolevulinic acidwere both normal , corroborating the watson schwartz test and ruling out anacute porphyric attack.gn24