642413904 | dmc | 85084167 | | 621601 | 7/3/1990 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | unsigned | dis | admission date: 4/16/1990 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 5/16/1990history of present illness: this is a 22 year old , gravida v para0314 , at 24 weeks , now with severefrontal headache and scintillations. dating is by the lastmenstrual period and an early ultrasound which placed her atapproximately 24 weeks. she presented with a three and a half dayhistory of severe frontal headaches with scintillations. there wasno relief with tylenol , aspirin or fioricet. she also stated shehad marked polydipsia for four days. she denied abdominal pain orswelling. she has a history of preeclampsia with a previous twingestation. she does note fetal activity. at this juncture , ishould note that much of this history is as per patient and issomewhat unreliable. past obstetrical history: c-section fortwins; previous c-section for singleton; history by patient ofpreeclampsia. past history: initially she admitted to no pastmedical problems , however , upon reviewing her chart the followingis obvious: chronic hypertension; seizure disorder following motorvehicle accident for which she is on valproic acid , no clearlydocumented recent seizures; history of asthma for which she takesmedicines p.r.n.; history of behavioral disorders with question ofpseudoseizures in the past; obesity; multiple drug allergies;cholecystectomy in 1990; appendectomy at age 14; motor vehicleaccident with v-p shunt placement in 1980; facial reconstructiontimes three in 1980; superficial vascular surgery in 1989 forvaricosities of the lower extremities. social history: she deniestobacco , ethanol or drug use.physical examination: revealed an obese white female in milddistress. the pupils are equal , round andreactive to light and accommodation; fundi well visualized , nopapilledema. good facial movements. no oral lesions. the chestwas clear. the heart showed a regular rate and rhythm. theabdomen was soft and nontender with a fetal heart rate in the140's. the extremities showed trace edema. the neuro exam showedcranial nerves ii-xii grossly intact. reflexes were 1+ withoutclonus. the strength was reduced to 4/5 in the right upper andright lower extremities , however , the exam was questionable as sheseemed to have a varying exam depending on the examiner and time ofexam. she also demonstrated decreased fine finger movements on theright.hospital course: problem #1 ) headache. the patient has a historyof chronic headaches for which she was maintainedon fioricet in the past. over the first week of hospitalization ,she complained of increasing headache that prevented her fromlooking into the light as well as prevented her from ambulating outof the bed. at times , she complained of intermittent visualsymptoms. these headaches were not completely relieved by demerol ,percocet or tylenol. she was eventually tried on fioricet whichapparently produced good relief of the headaches. she was seen byneurology and noted with a questionably abnormal neuro exam withfindings localized to the right side. apparently she has a historyof this abnormality in the past. a ct scan revealed what wasapparently old damage from the previous motor vehicle accident. anmri was entirely within normal limits. she refused a lumbarpuncture. at this time , the headaches are thought to be eithervascular in origin or psychogenic. she was continued on fioricetat the time of discharge. problem #2 ) hypertension. she hadelevated blood pressures of 150-160 over as high as 110 uponadmission. she has a history of chronic hypertension in the pastand was at least briefly maintained on hydrochlorothiazide before.she had a negative work up for pet , including repeat 24 hour urinesand repeat pet labs. as well , she had no physical findingsconsistent with pet. given her history of chronic hypertension , wefelt this was most likely chronic hypertension aggravated bypregnancy. she was begun on a beta blocker , namely labetolol , withgood control. she was discharged to home on labetolol. problem#3 ) history of seizure disorder. she carries the diagnosis of aseizure disorder , although this is , at least recently , poorlydocumented. she has been on valproic acid in the past and has beentaking a small dose of valproic acid apparently on her ownthroughout this pregnancy. she has been taking 250 mg a week. shelast noted an obvious seizure three years ago. it is not clearthat this was witnessed by anyone else. while in the hospital , shehad an eeg which suggested some slowing in the right parietalregion. there was no clear seizure activity seen on eeg. shecalled us to her room on several episodes which she described asseizures. these seizures were witnessed by several physicians andwere remarkable for absence of a postictal period as well asabnormal idiosyncratic behaviors during the events. it was ourfeeling that these were not true seizures. indeed , reviewing herchart , she has had episodes of what have been called pseudoseizuressimilar to these in the past. given her multiple drug allergies ,including dilantin , phenobarb and tegretol , we felt limited in ourtherapeutic options. we did elect to increase her dose of valproicacid as this has apparently been effective in the past. she willcontinue this as an outpatient. problem #4 ) nausea and vomiting.she complained of persistent nausea and vomiting during the latterpart of her hospitalization and declined to take anything p.o. theetiology of this nausea and vomiting was unclear , althoughapparently associated with some diarrhea. as much as was possible ,work up for an organic cause of the problem was negative. weelected initially to treat her with intravenous hydration , however ,she declined further iv's. in fact , she became quite vocal in herdemand to go home. she understands our concerns as to the risks ofpoor p.o. intake and insists she will be able to take in p.o.'s athome. given her feelings in this regard , we have elected todischarge her for a trial of outpatient management. follow up willbe in the clinic. should she show evidence of compromise ordehydration , she will be readmitted. problem #5 ) psychosocial.the patient has been seen several times in the past for behavioraldisorders. it is difficult to sort out what part of hersymptomatology is organic and what , if any , is inorganic. she wasseen by psychiatry during her stay here who felt that she had asignificant conflict in her home life. we have counseled her asmuch as possible throughout her stay. she has seen both socialservices and psychiatry , however , she is at best reluctant to availherself of these services. our plan at the time of discharge isfor follow up with dss. as well , we have emphasized ouravailability to the patient at all times and tried to be assupportive as possible in these circumstances.disposition: the patient was discharged for a trial of managementat home. the etiology of her discomfort is somewhatobscure , however , we have as best as possible ruled out obviousmajor organic pathology , including pet , central cns processes andfulminant hypertension.discharge diagnoses: 1. intrauterine pregnancy at 24 weeks.2. headache.3. seizure disorder.4. chronic hypertension.5. rule out pre-eclamptic toxemia.6. nausea and vomiting.operations/procedures: ct.mri.eeg times two.batch: 6383 report: l8617v2 t:________________________________ rl045/5531tyrone snider , m.d. fu64 d: 11/7/90batch: 3995 report: j8993q4 t: 9/17/90dictated by: tracy munoz , m.d.cc: wendell w. hemm , m.d.