record #895892121670578 | shahc | 33200811 | | 049559 | 8/10/1998 12:00:00 am | pancreatitis | signed | dis | admission date: 1/26/1998 report status: signeddischarge date: 7/12/1998history of present illness: the patient is a 65 year oldafrican-american female with ahistory of chronic pancreatitis who was recently admitted to thestaho health 10 of november to 3 of may for her chronicpancreatitis who returned on the 24 of january with recurrent abdominal painand symptoms consistent with her chronic pancreatitis. priorstudies by abdominal ct scan had showed findings consistent withchronic pancreatitis , such as multiple calcifications and thesetting of abdominal pain , swelling and peripancreatic increasedattenuation. findings consistent with acute pancreatitis. thepatient was admitted initially to the medical service.on admission , the patient had a low grade temperature of 100.2 , wastachycardic with a heart rate of 131 , respiratory rate 20 , bloodpressure 132/80. her exam was remarkable for decreased breathsounds at the right base and a few scattered rhonchi. cardiac examwas significant for tachycardia. there was no murmurs , rubs orgallops appreciated. abdominal exam was significant for decreasedbowel sounds. she had abdominal tenderness in the midepigastricregion with guarding. rectal exam was guaiac negative in theemergency room.laboratory data: sodium 128 , potassium 4.1 , chloride 95 ,bicarb 26 , bun 23 , creatinine 0.8 , glucose 433 ,wbc 17.8 , hematocrit 33 , platelets 370. liver function tests hadan alk level of 434 , t-bili was 0.6 , d-bili was 0.2 , lipase was123 , amylase was 37.the patient had an ultrasound in the emergency department whichshowed no gallstones. gallbladder that was mildly distended. acommon bile duct that was dilated to 7 mm as well as intrahepaticduct dilatation. in addition a 6 cm cyst was identified in theregion of the pancreatic head. ekg showed her to be in sinustachycardia with the rate of 122. she had a left axis deviation inqs and v1.past medical history: significant for pancreatitis , asthma ,insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , historyof vascular necrosis of both hips , status post a total hipreplacement on the right as well as a total hip replacement on theleft. she has known coronary artery disease , history of chronicobstructive pulmonary disease , history of gi bleed. status post anissen fundoplication with redo. hypertension. alpha thalassemia.history of congestive heart failure. chronic low back painsecondary to spinal stenosis.medications: metformin , atrovent , albuterol , flovent , elavil ,cisapride , flexeril , axid , nph insulin , cardizem cd ,lisinopril , lasix , magnesium oxide , percocet , premarin , provera ,prilosec , lipitor , tums and multi-vitamins.allergies: aspirin causes facial swelling , palpitations ,reactive airway disease. ibuprofen causing gi bleed.meperidine causing itching , prednisone causing myalgias ,arthralgias , osteoporosis. penicillin causes edema. fophonomidecauses itching. codeine causes itching. morphine causes itching.social history: she does not drink or use tobacco. she has twochildren. she lives alone.after admission to the medical service , she was seen by thesurgical service in consultation. based on clinical findings andlaboratory values , a repeat abdominal ct study was ordered with aplan for ct guided drainage to rule out a pancreatic abscess. thect guided aspirate appeared purulent and was sent for gram andcultures. gram stain was positive for gram negative rods and grampositive cocci in pairs actually growing out strep viridans andklebsiella.while in the hospital , the patient also developed a urinary tractinfection with yeast , and was started on fluconazole. this too ,she will be discharged with , to complete a seven-day course. aswell , the patient was felt to have peptic ulcer disease , and wasbegun on h. pylori therapy of biaxin and bismuth , both of which shewill be discharged on to complete a seven-day course. at the timeof discharge , the patient is relatively pain-free , tolerating ap.o. diet , and afebrile. the plan is to discharge her to thetriadnockum for rehabilitation on her usualmedications , plus the above-mentioned antibiotics. she will followup in the gug university in the next one to two weeks , andwill in addition be followed by her primary care physician , dr.lorenzodictated by: coleman d. hones , m.d. am50attending: sterling w. donson , m.d. ms98xc841/6428batch: 4574 index no. mluld48ndm d: 1/15/98t: 1/15/98[report_end]