629464295 | path | 87768480 | | 560749 | 5/21/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 9/14/1994 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/11/1994discharge diagnosis: 1 ) possible left hemisphere stroke withtranscortical aphasia.2 ) rule out myocardial infarction , negative.3 ) hypercalcemia.4 ) elevated liver function tests.5 ) depression.6 ) diabetes mellitus.history of present illness: this is a 55 year old right handedwoman with a history of diabetes oninsulin for three years , hypertension , question of migraineheadaches for more than ten years , and question of benignpositional vertigo admitted with blurred vision , light headedness ,and slurred and slowed speech since early the morning ofpresentation and substernal chest pain times two weeksintermittently. patient had a greater than ten year history ofheadaches , usually unilateral although alternating between left andright , frontal and occipital , throbbing , and usually without visualchanges , possible migraine. most recently , she has had theheadaches present for about three to four days and now has a leftsided frontal and occipital area headache. the morning ofpresentation , she awoke and then when she tried to sit up , feltlight headed but without loss of consciousness. then , when shetried to talk , she noted slurred and slow speech although sheunderstood , had positive word-finding , no aphasia , no wheakness , nonumbness , or other sensory changes. daughter called her ton hospital doctor and she was referred to ren care health emergency room by ambulance. the patient has also beencomplaining of substernal chest pain in the center of her chest ,dull without radiation , intermittently times two weeks , usuallymoderate in intensity , lasting about hours with no precipitatingfactors noted , and occurred regardless of activity level , even atrest associated with mild shortness of breath , no diaphoresis , andno increased nausea or vomiting. review of systems: also positivefor mild temperature rise around 99 degrees fahrenheit. of note ,she does have a borderline personality and significant lifestressors of pressures about her job and death of her granddaughterlast year. in the emergency room , a head ct was negative for ableed , infarct , or mass lesion. she did have chest pain and hadreceived two sublingual nitroglycerins without relief , maalox withsome relief of that pain , and there were no ekg changes. the ck aand b were flat. past medical history: diabetes mellitus on oralhypoglycemic times one year and then insulin times three yearsdiagnosed as gestational diabetes at first approximately more thentwenty years ago. she also has a history of a hypertension ,question of benign positional vertigo , cervical radiculopathy ,bilateral carpal-tunnel syndrome , borderline personality with ahistory of major depression , thalassemia trait , gastroesophagealreflux disease , question of thyroid disease , chronic hepaticabdominal liver function test rise with a possible biopsy in 6/9although results are not here , and question of migraines since themid 1970s. past surgical history: cholecystectomy and abdominalhysterectomy. allergies: doxycycline which causes mouth tingling ,penicillin which causes hives , novacaine which causes hives , diurilwhich causes itching and nausea , aldactone which causes hives , andaldomet which causes hives. current medications: lasix 40 mg p.o.b.i.d. , nph insulin 30 units subcutaneously q.a.m. , acebutolol 400mg p.o. b.i.d. , and valium p.r.n. social history: no cigarettesand no ethanol. she is a school teacher. family history:positive for a cerebrovascular accident in her mother at the age of21 and no coronary artery disease.physical examination: in general , she was an obese black womanawake but very quiet and reserved but in noapparent distress. vital signs showed a temperature of 98 , pulse78 , blood pressure 140/100 , and respiratory rate 18. significantpositives included neurological examination of alert and orientedtimes three , cranial nerves ii-xii generally intact except forright lower facial weakness with decreased nasolabial fold on theright , motor was 5/5 in the left side upper extremity and lowerextremity , 5 minus deltoid on the right , and aside from that , 5throughout , sensory examination was intact to light touch and pinin upper extremities and lower extremities bilaterally , and toeswere downgoing.laboratory examination: chest x-ray showed no infiltrates and ekgshowed 79 , sinus rhythm , a first degree avblock , left anterior hemi-block , a q in iii and f , and poor r waveprogression. laboratory values showed a white count of 4.7 ,hematocrit of 38 , platelet count of 181 , calcium was elevated at11.5 with an albumin of 4.4 , phosphate was 3.1 , and alkalinephosphatase 294.hospital course: patient was admitted for a rule out myocardialinfarction for the substernal chest pain althoughthere was a low index of suspicion for heart attack. she ruled outby ck and had no ekg changes. phc cardiology felt that this chestpain was not related to her heart or ischemic cause and left it upto the primary provider , dr. dorset , to arrange for an out-patientexercise stress test if felt necessary. most likely , the chestpain represented some type of gastroesophageal reflux disease andthe patient was restarted on axid. another issue was question ofnew neurologic deficits although the original head ct showed noevidence of stroke. the stroke may have been too early to detectleaving diagnosis of either a new cerebrovascular accident , amanifestation of a seizure , or a conversion reaction secondary toher borderline personality. her primary deficit remained theslowing of speech without actual slurring of speech and without anydeficits in understanding or expression. a lumbar puncture wasdone on the second day of hospitalization with a mildly elevatedprotein in the sixties and a glucose in the 120 range. cell countwas low not consistent with infection. a cardiac echo was alsodone which showed normal left ventricular function without anysegmantal wall motion abnormalities , there was a question of leftventricular hypertrophy , and carotid dopplers were done whichshowed no significant disease in the internal carotid arteries ,however , there was a mild left internal carotid artery plaque.patient's neurologic status remained stable during herhospitalization. she was started on aspirin on admission. aftermuch discussion with nmh neurology as well as with dr. talboti , itwas felt that the patient could be followed as an out-patient. itis recommended that the patient have neurology follow-up next week ,had a repeat ct of the head done to see whether ther is a newinfarct , and also an eeg was recommended by the neurologyconsultation servicer here for a question of seizures. patientwill have home occupational , physical , and speech therapy providedthrough dishmution .  another issue was hypercalcemia. patient had anelevated calcium on admission. patient was guaiac negative withoutany mass lesions. patient's chest x-ray was also read as clearwithout any masses. patient did have a cursory breast examinationwithout any evidence of a breast mass and has had mammograms in thepast without any evidence of malignancy. the etiology of theelevated calcium was unclear although leading diagnoses includeprimary hyperparathyroidism , prolonged immobilization , or lying inbed with some leeching of calcium versus a possible malignancy.patient should have her calcium followed as an out-patient. shedid have a pth level drawn during this admission , the results werenot back at the time of discharge , however , this level should bechecked upon her next visit. patient is now ready for dischargehome.disposition: discharge medications: acebutolol 400 mg p.o.b.i.d. , nph insulin 30 units subcutaneously q.a.m. ,lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. , ecotrin one tablet p.o. q.d. , and fioricetone to two tablets p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. for headache. she willfollow-up with dr. dari next monday.dictated by: edgar leuenberger , m.d. sc00attending: federico mccargar , m.d. ip8  lg344/7121batch: 3607 index no. kgaxgu3gg9 d: 10/10/94t: 11/14/94