925717210 | tam | 26072908 | | 590738 | 7/15/1999 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/21/1999 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/24/1999admitting diagnosis: coronary artery disease.history of present illness: thirty-seven-year-old gentleman witha history of angina in the past. in1995 , a work-up was negative with a negative stress test andtreated medically two months ago regarding exertional angina andprogression of angina on day of admission. he was admitted to themissconbar clinic at which time his ekg showed supraventricularchanges in 2 , 3 , and abf with t-wave inversions in 1 , avl , andv4-6. he was cathed at that time which showed 100% lad and 40%proximal mid-rca and a 50% proximal posterior lv branch. thepatient was transferred over to the dy hospitalfor further management and surgery.on 11/9 , the patient underwent an echocardiogram which showed anejection fraction of 55% with mild inferior to posteriorhypokinesis , trivial mitral regurgitation. he was cathed with anattempt to angioplasty the lad but failed and had a stent placedand noted to have an lad dissection. thus , the patient wasreferred for surgical intervention with coronary artery bypassgrafting.past medical history: significant for coronary artery disease ,hypercholesterolemia , hypertension , motorvehicle accident in 1983 complicated by contusion with slurredspeech and wrist and rib fractures along with multiple faciallacerations.past surgical history: as stated above due to motor vehicleaccident. he had a hematoma of his rightneck which needed to be surgically evacuated.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications: nitroglycerin 1.5 q.6h. , simvastatin 20 mg p.o.q.h.s. , lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. , aspirin 325 mgp.o. q.d. on the unit , he was on tirofiban iv.family history: very significant with father dying of amyocardial infarction in his 40s , four uncles whodied of a myocardial infarction in their 30s to 40s.social history: positive for etoh with one drink per day.stopped smoking a month ago one pack a day x 18years. he stopped on 7/4 , the day of admission.physical examination: afebrile , sinus rhythm 66 , blood pressure95/60 on room air at 96%. heent:nonicteric , fair dentition , no oral lesions. neck: no evidence ofbruits. scar on the right neck secondary to motor vehicleaccident. cardiac: regular rate and rhythm , no evidence ofmurmurs , gallops or rubs. lungs: clear to auscultation. noevidence of rales , wheezes , or rhonchi. abdomen: positive bowelsounds , soft , non-tender. no evidence of hepatosplenomegaly.extremities: no evidence of edema or varicosities. scar to theright knee secondary to laceration. vascular: 2+ pulsesthroughout with a patent allen on the left hand. neurological:alert and oriented x three. grossly non-focal.laboratory data: within normal limits. a chest x-ray showedno acute pulmonary disease. ekg was in normalsinus rhythm. the patient was referred for coronary artery bypassgrafting.hospital course: the patient was admitted on 9/8/99 to thecoronary care unit and was taken down to thecatheterization laboratory with attempt to angioplasty his lad butfailed angioplasty and had a stent placed and noted a dissection ofhis lad. the patient was started on tirofiban , heparin , and iv tngand referred to the cardiac surgeons for coronary artery bypassgrafting. the patient was also seen by the plastic surgery servicefor evaluation of a radial harvest for graft conduit. the patienthad positive patent arch by allens on the left. the patient wasright handed so it was consented for a left radial harvest. thepatient was taken to the operating room on 10/6 and underwent acoronary artery bypass grafting x four with a lima to the lad , aradial artery to the second diagonal , and a saphenous vein graftsequential to the patent ductus arteriosus and posterior lv branch.the patient on examination of his lad was found to have adissection in the mid-portion from the previous ptca about 2.5 to3.0 cm. anastomosis was done with the lima and the two layers ofthe lad artery was reattached with suture.the patient came off the heart lung machine with no difficulty andwas taken to the cardiac surgery intensive care unit and wasextubated on post-op day number one doing well from cardiopulmonarystandpoint and transferred to the step-down unit on post-op daynumber four. the patient remained in normal sinus rhythm and hadan uncomplicated post-op course except for temperature spike onpost-op day number four to 101. he was pan-cultured. a chestx-ray showed a slight posterior effusion with question ofconsolidation. some consolidation on the lung field. sputum onlygrew out oroflora. blood cultures were negative with no growth sofar and a urinalysis was negative. his temperature was felt to bedue to his lung atelectasis , ?start of pneumonia and the patientwas started on levofloxacin p.o. the patient had no furthertemperature and remained afebrile for the next 24 hours. thepatient had no evidence of elevation in his white count.disposition: the patient was discharged to home on post-op daynumber five in stable condition.discharge medications: enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. once aday , diltiazem 30 mg p.o. t.i.d. , percocet1-2 tablets q.4h. p.r.n. pain , zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,levofloxacin 500 mg q.d. for 5 days for presumedatelectasis/pneumonia , atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d.discharge labs: bun/creatinine 8/0.9 , sodium 140 , potassium 4.5 ,and magnesium of 2.2 , hematocrit 29 , white count5.6 , platelets 304.follow-up: he is to follow-up with his cardiologist in one-twoweeks and to follow-up with dr. lantieri in four-six weeksfor postsurgical evaluation.dictated by: wilfredo adelson , m.d.attending: cole t. casilla , m.d. jm0zl941/3905batch: 09450 index no. w5rckw7esz d: 1/21/99t: 5/29/99op5