235960043 | rh | 47251002 | | 690227 | 4/26/1995 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 8/11/1995 report status: signeddischarge date: 12/10/1995principal diagnosis: recurrent left lower extremity deepvenous thromboses ( dvt's )significant problems: 1 ) obstructive sleep apnea2 ) restrictive lung disease3 ) hypertensionhistory of present illness: this is a 50 year old black female witha significant past medical history formultiple dvt's , who came in here complaining of increased leftlower extremity swelling and pain. the patient has a long historyof left lower extremity dvt's. she had her first dvt approximatelyten years ago. she has had approximately one to two dvts per yearthereafter. according to her report , the dvts have always been inthe left lower extremity. also , her record shows that she has onlyhad dvts in her left lower extremity. the longest duration of symptoms from advt was approximately for one to two years. she has hadmultiple other episodes of left lower extremity swelling and pain. thepatient states that she would not always go to the hospital fortreatment , but instead would self treat herself by raising her legwhen immobile. nonetheless , she has had approximately four dvts inthe past year. her last two admissions for dvts were as follows:from 3/6 to 5/1/95 she had left popliteal and greater saphenousdvts by lower extremity non invasive testing. she was discharged atthat time but did not fill her coumadin prescription. she was thenreadmitted on 3/23/95 and discharged on 1/1/95 with a left commonfemoral dvt by lower extremity non invasive testing.since the last admission , the patient adamantly states that she wasvery compliant to coumadin therapy. she states that she has hadincreased pain and swelling in the left lower extremity. she alsostates that she has been relatively active at home ( she doesgardening , cleans the house , goes for walks ). when not active , thepatient states that she elevates her legs. despite all of this ,the patient has noted gradual increase of left lower extremityswelling and pain which has became intolerable on the day ofpresentation.dvt risk factors: no trauma to the lower extremities , no priorsurgery to the onset of dvt. no knownhypocoagulable state. no oral contraceptives used. no hormonereplacement therapy. no significant immobilization. the patient isobese , she has had three miscarriages and she smokes. also of notethe patient had a factor v level , which was normal. no otherstudies have been done by patient report or discharge report.review of systems: the patient denies any fevers , chills , sweats ,nausea or vomiting , diarrhea , bright red bloodper rectum , melena , chest pain , pleuritic chest pain , chestpressure , cough , or dysuria. however , the patient has had asignificant toothaches bilaterally for the past two weeks. also , ofparticular note , the patient gives a history of sudden onset ofshortness of breath , lasting for approximately 30 minutes or so ,almost every evening. she states that the shortness of breath isrelieved with oxygen therapy , as she has at home. she never haspleuritic chest pain or cough with these episodes.past medical history: 1 ) recurrent dvts x 10 years; 2 ) obesity andobstructive sleep apnea; 3 ) restrictive lungdisease; 4 ) hypertension; 5 ) atypical chest pain; 6 ) gerd; 7 )depression; 8 ) status post herniorrhaphy in september of 1994.pfts from september of 1994 show an fvc of 1.85 , which is 56%predicted. fev-1 of 1.61 , which is 59% predicted. mvc/fev-1 ratioof 107% predicted. dlco corrected 61%. tlc of 3.32 , which is 64% predicted.echo results from 1994 show an ejection fraction of 55% , with anormal right ventricular function and size.the patient is on home 02 , approximately two to three liters bynasal cannula. her baseline dyspnea on exertion is approximatelyfive steps or approximately 1/4 block , but always without chestpain or substernal chest pressure.past obstetrical history: she is g viii , p v with three mis-carriages in the first trimester.medications on admission: 1 ) coumadin , 7.5 mg q day; 2 ) zoloft ,60 mg q day; 3 ) lasix , 20 mg q day; 4 )axid , 150 mg b.i.d.tobacco: 30 years x one half pack per day; currently smoking.alcohol: no alcohol use.ivdu: cocaine , no use.allergies: no known drug allergies.family history: she has a positive family history for cancer. hermother had cancer and died at a young age but shedid not know her mother. her grandmother had skin cancer. there isno diabetes mellitus; coronary artery disease , bleeding or clottingproblems or lung problems in her family.social history: the patient is from ellno rd andwas raised by her grandmother. she has four livingchildren and one child who recently passed away. she has beendepressed after the death of her last child. she is now livingwith her son in barin ln , i ville joseri , hawaiiphysical exam: the patient is a very obese , black female in noapparent distress. she was not tachypneic.temperature 97.3 , blood pressure 112/74 , pulse 64 , respiratory rate16. oxygen saturation of 88% on room air , which increased to 93%on two liters nasal cannula. skin was warm and dry. there were norashes , bruising or petechiae noted. heent - pupils equally roundand reactive to light and accommodation. eomi. sclera anicteric.neck supple with a full range of motion , no lymphadenopathy , nojvd; oropharynx moist and pink. tongue midline with a mottledpigmentation. tonsils bilaterally enlarged with a small airwaynoted. the left upper two molars were tender to minimal palpation.the right upper molar was also tender. lungs clear to auscultationbilaterally but decreased breath sounds in the bases. heart -regular rate and rhythm without any murmurs , rubs or gallops.abdomen soft , non tender , obese , positive bowel sounds , negativeorganomegaly; vertical midline scar , no cvat. rectal examinationwas hemenegative. extremities - there was significant left lowerextremity swelling noted up to the thigh with positive pittingedema to the calf. there was also tenderness on the left innerthigh anteriorly. there was also marked tenderness on the leftcalf. there was no erythema. the left calf measured 41.5 cm.there was an impressive homan's sign. the right lower extremityhad minimal swelling noted without tenderness , erythema or warmth.the right calf measured 36.0 cm. neuro exam non focal.laboratory data: notable for a bicarbonate of 34 , hematocrit of48.2 , and rdw of 17.4 and mcv of 75.4; whiteblood cell count of 4.9 with a normal differential. her ptt was21.6 , inr of 3.2 , ptt of 45.0. chest x-ray showed no pulmonaryedema or pneumonia. there was bibasilar atelectasis , which was notchanged from prior x-ray. lima showed left common femoral veindvt , left popliteal vein dvt and distal left saphenous vein dvt.vq scan was read as low probability , which was comparable to herprevious vq scan in september of 1995 , which was low probability.hospital course: the patient was evaluated for recurrent dvt andpossible pulmonary embolus and treated with intravenousheparin. we had a low clinical suspicion for pulmonary embolus and the vq scanwas also low probability. the patient was seen by the cardiology service toevaluate if the patient was a candidate for ivc filter placement.cardiology felt that the patient was not at risk for pulmonaryembolus and that her recurrent dvts were of a more result of noncompliance and/or never completing a full course of anticoagulationtherapy. thus , the plan was to continue to anticoagulate thepatient and follow her as an outpatient. however , the patientcontinued to have tooth pain and was seen by the dental service. on1/17/95 , she had two molars extracted , one on each side of theupper dentition. her dental surgery was uncomplicated. aftersurgery , she was continued on heparin and anticoagulated withcoumadin. the patient continued to do well. however , the patient'shospital course was notable for multiple episodes of suddenshortness of breath , usually occurring during the evening. theshortness of breath would come on suddenly , sometimes when she wasasleep and sometimes when she was awake. the shortness of breathwould last for approximately 30 minutes or so and would be relievedwith oxygen therapy by nasal cannula. the patient states that thishistory of sudden shortness of breath is usual for her and hasoccurred for several months. there were no associated symptoms offevers , chills , sweats , pleuritic chest pain , chest pressure ,palpitations or cough. we did not suspect that she was havingmultiple pe's. the patient was sent home with an inr of 3.2.in any case , the patient was slow to respond while in house toanticoagulation with warfarin. she required approximately six daysof warfarin at the following doses - 12.5 , 9/14 7.5 and 10 mg ofcoumadin before obtaining an inr greater than 3.discharge medications: 1 ) lasix , 20 mg q day; 2 ) nifedipine xl , 30mg q day; 3 ) zoloft , 50 mg q d; 4 ) axid ,150 mg b.i.d.; 5 ) coumadin , 7.5 mg alternating with 10 mg p o qday.follow up: the patient is scheduled to have a follow upappointment with dr. delbo on 7/25/95 at 9:40 am. she is tohave vna service to her home to check her inr level tomorrow. herpt/ptt results will be reported to jae hobbie , a nursepractitioner at the sa more memorial hospital bry center clinic.dictated by: otto rosenwinkel , jl6attending: javier l. hickethier , ph.d to34bs597/1079batch: 46017 index no. xfxqim1gzi d: 9/27/95t: 2/13/95