995247940 | abohs | 01328259 | | 983241 | 8/25/1998 12:00:00 am | cerebro vascular accident | signed | dis | admission date: 4/10/1998 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/19/1998principal diagnosis: left subcortical stroke.problem list: 1 ) diabetes mellitus. 2 ) multinodular goiter.3 ) hypertension. 4 ) anemia , sickle cell trait.5 ) status post total abdominal hysterectomy ,cervical dysplasia. 6 ) bursitis and multiplesites of arthritis. 7 ) history of physical abuse.8 ) vitiligo. 9 ) hemorrhoids.history of present illness: approximately two days prior topresentation , while preparing toreturn to bed , the patient noted decrease feeling in her right legand right arm clumsiness. she returned to bed and remained thereall day long. she fell onto her bottom secondary to unsteadiness.she has remained on the couch , except to get water since one dayprior to admission. she was unable to stand up on the day ofadmission. this event was felt to be different from her usualparalysis ( she had had similar symptoms of this before and hadwaited for it to resolve ) , except that this event had lastedgreater than 24 hours and she also began to notice dysarthria. shehad not taken insulin for several days , but has had decreased p.o.intake secondary to her inability to move. of note , she haddifficulty swallowing on the morning of admission.review of systems: she had no fevers , chills , vomiting or lossof consciousness. no seizure activity. nohead or neck trauma. no vertigo or tenderness. no recent changein medications. no chest pain or shortness of breath , nophotophobia or neck stiffness.past medical history: history of diabetes mellitus , multinodulargoiter , hypertension , anemia and sickle celltrait , status post total abdominal hysterectomy , history ofcervical dysplasia , bursitis and multiple musculoskeletalcomplaints , just a history of physical abuse and vitiligo ,hemorrhoids.medications: hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 milligrams once a day ,norvasc 5 milligrams once a day , taxol 28 milligramsonce a day , premarin 0.625 milligrams once a day , trazodone ,insulin 12 units of regular and 50 units of nph in the morning and14 units of regular and 10 units of nph in the evening. she hadalso been taking ansaid 100 milligrams p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. jointpain. she is also reportedly taking a baby aspirin 81 milligramsonce a day.social history: the patient is on disability. she lives alone asa widow. no clear history of tobacco or ethanoluse. she has two children. she is independent with adls andmobility.family history: familial intermittent paralytic syndrome.physical examination: temperature was 97.1 , heart rate 110 ,respirations 20 , blood pressure 130/70 ,oxygen saturation 100% on room air. glucose is 388. mental statusexamination: the patient was alert and oriented times threefollowing three step command across the midline. no apraxia.positive dysarthria. repetition intact. memory 3/3 immediatelyand 3/3 at 5 minutes. cranial nerves: pupils 3-2 bilaterally.right central facial paralysis. no pallor or droop. decreasedsensation to light touch , pinprick and temperature on the right.tears well bilaterally. she cannot shrug her right shoulder.motor and tone flaccid on the right. strength: right hemiplegia( can only wiggle toes ) , left strength 4-5/5 ( poor effort ). deeptendon reflexes are 2+ at the biceps , 1+ at the knees , 0-1 at theankle with an upgoing right toe. sensation: decreased sensationto light touch , pinprick and vibration. temperature on the rightincluding trunk. gait not assessed. heent: atraumatic. necksupple. lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally. cardiovascular:regular rate and rhythm. abdomen: soft and nontender. positivebowel sounds. extremities: no edema.ekg: sinus tachycardia at 104 per report when compared with ekgof january , no significant change. chest x-ray: noevidence of active cardiopulmonary disease. ct scan of the head on8/17/98 showed low density area present in the posterior limb ofthe left intracapsular capsule consistent with an infarct.otherwise , no significant abnormality was seen. mild ageappropriate involutional changes were present.laboratory: showed a glucose of 353 , sodium 138 , potassium 4.9 ,chloride 98 , co2 28 , bun 33 , creatinine 1.1 , calcium10.3 , magnesium 2.0 , troponin 0.09. white count 8.4 , hematocrit39.8 , platelet count 367 , 000. pt 12.1 , ptt 19.5. inr 1.0.assessment and plan: ms. lofstrom is a 57-year-old female with apast medical history of hypertension ,diabetes mellitus , multinodular goiter , arthritis and questionablerecurrent bouts of generalized weakness who was admitted for newonset of right sided weakness ( three days prior to admission ) ,right leg numbness and weakness , right arm clumsiness followed bydysarthria.hospital course by systems:1. neurology: the patient was felt to have a probable subcorticalstroke of the left hemisphere with preservation of the speechprocessing abilities with dense motor and sensory involvement.this was felt to potentially represent an mca branch occlusion withincreased edema versus a large lacuna. in addition , given herhistory , the team was unable to rule out the possibility of anembolic event. therefore , the patient was admitted and ruled outfor a myocardial infarction. her cks were 25 , 37 , 37 and 32. shewas placed on a cardiac monitor with no evidence of arrhythmia.she was placed on subcu heparin and started on full dose aspirin325 milligrams p.o. q.d.in order to further work up the etiology for stroke , the patienthad an echocardiogram done which revealed evidence of concentriclvh with preserved systolic function , calculated ejection fractionof 55%. other than nonspecific septal abnormality , there was noevidence of regional wall motion dysfunction. there were earlychanges of mitral annular calcification present , some increasedexcursion of the mitral leaflet , but this is associated with onlytrivial regurgitation. trileaflet aortic valve withoutdysfunction. one plus tricuspid regurgitation. peak doppler flowvelocity across the tricuspid valve reached 2.5 meters per secondconsistent with normal right heart systolic pressures. there wasno evidence of effusion. in addition , the patient underwentcarotid noninvasive studies which revealed no evidence ofhemodynamically significant disease in either carotid artery withthose arteries having minimal plaque and 1-25% stenosis. inaddition , the patient had an mri/mra to further evaluate potentiallesions. on mri there was a focal area of increased t2 signal inthe posterior limb of the left internal capsule , close the genu.this area demonstrated restricted diffusion on epi diffusion ,weighted sequence. a similar smaller area of signal abnormalitywas noted in the left globus pallidus adjacent to the left internalcapsule abnormality. these areas represent subacute infarctions.the ventricles and sulci were minimally prominent , consistent withthe patient's age. there was no other signal abnormality noted.major vascular flow voids were normal. there was no mass or masseffect. three d , tof mrn angiogram on the circle of willis and itsmajor tributaries did not demonstrate any abnormality. incidentalnote was made of a dominant right vertebral artery. the formalimpression revealed subacute infarcts involving the posterior limbof the internal capsule on the left as well as the left globuspallidus. unremarkable mr angiogram on the circle of willis.in addition , given the patient's history of polymyalgias , an esrand c-reactive protein were obtained. the esr was 46. thec-reactive protein was 1.13. the stroke service was asked tocomment on the possibility of a vasculitic process. in addition ,the patient's primary rheumatologist was consulted as well. thepatient's primary rheumatologist felt that the patient's stroke wasmost likely due to small vessel disease associated with diabetesand hypertension. he felt there was no evidence for a vasculitis.he therefore suggested to continue aspirin , but in higher doses toalleviate her left shoulder pain. the patient did not feel thatshe had any vasculitic process. they therefore recommendedcontinuing aspirin 325 milligrams p.o. q.d. , checking a serumhomocystine which remains pending at the time of this dictation ,reviewing her carotid studies ( mentioned above ) , and continue withphysical therapy occupational therapy and speech therapy.pt and ot were consulted as well as speech therapy.in addition to continuing the patient on aspirin , continuing subcuheparin while the patient was immobile , the patient'santihypertensives were held in order to maintain a systolic bloodpressure between 140-160 and a diastolic blood pressure between85-90 for the first ten days following her stroke. for the firstfew days , the patient was kept in a lying position as much aspossible and her activity level was gradually increased to thepoint where she was participating in full pt/ot. at the time ofthis dictation , the patient's norvasc continued to be held withexcellent control of her blood pressure between systolic of140-160. it should not be reinitiated until roughly ten days afterher stroke.the patient had relatively poor return of function during herhospital stay , but was felt to be a good candidate for potentialrehabilitation. therefore when her medical issues were stable , shewas considered ready for transfer to a rehabilitation facility inan attempt to further improve her neurologic function. as notedpreviously , the patient's antihypertensives should be reinitiatedgradually with a goal systolic blood pressure between 140-160 witha diastolic blood pressure of 85-90 to be initiated roughly tendays from the time of her stroke ( presented on 8/17/98 ). as notedby the work up , the patient had no evidence of an embolic sourcefor her stroke and her carotid studies were unremarkable.2. rheumatologic: as noted , the patient has a long history ofdiffuse arthritic complaints. she had her sed rate and c-reactiveprotein checked. rheumatology was consulted who felt that herstroke was not consistent with a vascular process. they didrecommend checking a urinalysis to check for red blood cells andcasts. her urinalysis showed no protein , no blood , 0-2 red bloodcells , no casts. only other recommendation was to continue aspirinand consider higher doses to alleviate left shoulder pain. inaddition , recommended avoiding nonsteroidals while the patient wason aspirin.3. endocrine: the patient has a history of diabetes mellitus andhad not taken her insulin for several days prior to admission. thepatient was placed on her regular insulin schedule as well as asliding scale. the patient's blood sugar has ranged from the 150to the high 200s. as the patient's diet returns to baseline , shemay require adjustments of her nph and regular insulin doses. inaddition , the patient's premarin was held during this admission andfurther therapy should be decided by the patient's follow upneurologist.4. fluids , electrolytes and nutrition: the patient initiallyappeared somewhat dehydrated on admission and was thereforerehydrated with iv fluids. she had good resolution and returned tobaseline of her bun and creatinine. she was eating well at thetime of discharge. close observation was paid to her electrolytesincluding her potassium. her electrolytes should be periodicallymonitored at least once a week at rehabilitation. she does have ahistory of hyperkalemia and should be watched carefully for this.5. social work: the patient initially made a comment to themedical team that she had been abused by her husband. the socialworker was consulted and asked to see her regarding this issue ofspouse abuse. it is true that her husband had hit her in theforehead with a baseball bat in the past. he died several yearsago and no further abuse history could be elicited since his death.she currently has two supportive children.the patient was considered stable and ready for discharge to arehabilitation facility. when the date of her transfer is madeavailable , her discharge medications will be dictated along withfollow up.dictated by: rodger falis , m.d. mw19attending: juan amisano , m.d. ai9  eb354/2097batch: 4280 index no. ytcbo390i d: 10/5/98t: 1/19/98