148688447 | kirh | 42920903 | | 676672 | 1/28/1996 12:00:00 am | atrial flutter , congestive heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 1/28/1996 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/30/1996principal diagnosis: congestive heart failure.secondary diagnoses: 1. cardiomyopathy.2. status post right carotid endarterectomy.3. hypertension.4. diabetes mellitus.5. paroxysmal atrial tachycardia.history of present illness: patient is a 73 year old male with ahistory of hypertension , diabetesmellitus , congestive heart failure , who has had multiple previousadmissions to lourdes memorial medical center with exacerbations ofhis congestive heart failure , most recently 27 of february the patientwas reasonably well until approximately 4-5 weeks ago when heinitially noticed slight worsening of bilateral ankle swelling.this has progressively worsened until the date of admission whenswelling had progressed up to his waist. in the last 2-3 weeks , healso noted slow worsening of his exertional dyspnea. prior tothis , he was rarely limited by shortness of breath , but does notexert himself much. recently , however , exercise tolerance hasdecreased to 3 to 50 feet on flat ground. patient denied shortnessof breath at rest until yesterday evening when he noted slightdyspnea also associated with a vague chest tightness. patientsubsequently went to bed , slept on his usual two pillows. he wokesuddenly at 4:00 a.m. the morning of admission with severeshortness of breath , chest tightness , and a sensation of generalfatigue. he was unable to get back to sleep because of worsenedorthopnea. his daughter called the emts who took the patient tothe pathhydenoa ryside community hospital emergency room. his initial ekg showed arate of 150 and he was loaded with procainamide after no changeafter being treated with iv adenosine. after treatment with o2 ,his chest tightness resolved. he denied nausea , vomiting ,lightheadedness or diaphoresis on presentation. he also deniedpalpitations during the past few weeks , but has noted episodicpalpitations in the past. he denies any previous episodes of chestpain or angina. in addition , he denies syncope and presyncope.past medical history: 1. congestive heart failure/ischemiccardiomyopathy with recent echo of 10/16 withan ejection fraction of 20% with antero and inferior apicalhypokinesis. 2. non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus ,diagnosed in 1988 , treated with oral agents. 3. hypertension. 4.status post varicose vein surgery of the left leg.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications: aspirin 325 mg q.day , digoxin 0.25 mg q.day ,glyburide 2.5 mg q.day , lisinopril 10 mg q.day , lasix40 mg p.o. b.i.d.social history: patient is a retired ship engineer , immigratedto the dayna sas from shanpro owma street he lives withhis daughter in li , originally from monte terster go hesmokes 1/2 pack per day x 48 years , stopped when he moved to thesy virgs lihamdale alcohol - intermittent binge drinking withoutregular heavy consumption.physical examination: heart rate was 120 , blood pressure 90/70 ,without orthostatic change. heent showedpupils were equal , round , reactive to light. extracular movementsintact. oropharynx was clear. neck showed jvp above the jaw witha question of a waves. chest showed decreased breath sounds at thebases bilaterally with bibasilar crackles. cardiac exam wasregularly irregular s1 , s2 , + s3 and s4 , 2/6 pansystolic murmur tothe apex. abdominal exam was soft , nontender , nondistended , with apalpable liver edge , nonpulsatile. no splenomegaly. extremitiesshowed 3+ bilateral pitting edema. distal pulses were not palpablebilaterally. femoral pulses 2+ bilaterally. neurologic exam wasgrossly nonfocal. chest x-ray revealed cardiomegaly with pulmonaryvascular redistribution and perivascular cuffing. ekg showedatrial flutter with 2:1 block at a rate of 135 withintraventricular conduction delay with right bundle branch blockpattern , as well as poor r wave progression.hospital course: 1. cardiovascular. after patient had beentreated with procainamide in the emergency room ,he became hypotensive and was subsequently cardioverted. his bloodpressure recovered to his baseline of 90 systolic and he wasstarted on ace inhibitors. he was also treated with iv lasix andstarted on heparin. because of his disproportionate rightventricular failure , he did undergo a vq scan which was lowprobability.patient had recurrent episodes of atrial tachycardia and was loadedorally with amiodarone. in addition , he had some short runs ofnonsustained ventricular tachycardia.after aggressive diuresis , the patient was noted to have anincreasing bun/creatinine. he was started on iv dobutamine on14 of july and was continued on captopril and isordil. he diuresed wellon dobutamine and was restarted on digoxin. the dobutamine wasweaned to off on 11 of january he was restarted on iv lasix.on 25 of august , patient underwent cardiac catheterization which showed a40% mid lad lesion , 40% om , 40% rca. his pressures showed an rapressure of 10 , rv 50/12 , with a mean pa pressure of 34 , apulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 22 , cardiac output 3.0 , withan index of 1.6 , svr 1800. it was therefore felt that hiscardiomyopathy which had initially been attributed to ischemicetiology , was likely idiopathic or secondary to alcohol. thepatient was subsequently transferred to the kh with swan-ganzcatheter in place. he was again treated with dobutamine andisordil and his captopril was titrated upwards. repeat echo showedan ejection fraction of 20% with an unstable lv thrombus. he wassubsequently restarted on heparin , followed by loading withcoumadin. he was transferred back to the floor on 2 of february andremained hemodynamically stable on captopril , isordil , amiodarone ,digoxin and aspirin. his lasix intravenous was converted to p.o.torsemide with good fluid balance.2. neurology. the patient was noted to complain oflightheadedness , vertigo and ringing in his ears after receivinghis doses of captopril. he underwent noninvasive carotids whichshowed a subtotal occlusion of his right internal carotid artery.he underwent combined cardiac catheterization and carotidangiography on 11 of january angiography revealed a greater than 90% rightinternal carotid stenosis. following the procedure , he had atransient 5-10 minute episode of decreased responsiveness anddecreased left hand grip , which resolved completely. on 30 of january ,he underwent right carotid endarterectomy complicated by a smallright neck hematoma which resolved spontaneously. he had nofurther symptoms and was able to tolerate captopril up to 25 mgt.i.d.3. hematology. the patient was anticoagulated with heparinfollowed by coumadin as above , for his lv thrombus , with a targetinr of 2.5 to 3.4. non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. patient's bloodsugars were well controlled on p.o. glyburide.5. renal. patient's creatinine on admission was 1.4. hiscreatinine transiently rose to 2.2 with aggressive diuresis , butfell to 1.4 on discharge.the patient was discharged home with vna services on 23 of march hewas stable on discharge. he is to follow up with dr. seth scheirman on 10 of februarydischarge medications: amiodarone 400 mg p.o. q.day , entericcoated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.day ,captopril 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. , digoxin 0.625 q.day , isordil 20 mgp.o. t.i.d. , multivitamin , quinine 325 mg p.o. q.day , torsemide 60mg p.o. q.day , coumadin.dictated by: douglas e. moring , m.d. ot84attending: malcom leiendecker , m.d. sc88qw948/7787batch: 42940 index no. l2cv1boit d: 10/29/97t: 2/9/97