107038175 | sauh | 85505772 | | 8903191 | 6/20/2006 12:00:00 am | bilateral pulmonary emboli | signed | dis | admission date: 6/20/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/25/2006attending: dobrich , son j. mdhistory of present illness: this is an 85-year-old woman with ahistory of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , type ii diabetes , dvtsin the past , and a right lower lobe lung mass found to be thymomaon fine needle aspirate biopsy who presents with sharpright-sided chest pain x1 week , as well as increased dyspnea onexertion times two days. she denies hemoptysis , cough , fever orchills. the remainder of her review of systems is negative. shewas seen at her pcp's clinic , and was sent for a pe protocol ctat an outside hospital , which was positive for bilateralpulmonary emboli. she has no recent history of immobilization orsurgery.past medical history: paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , firstdiagnosed in september of 2006 , type ii diabetes , hypertension ,recurrent urinary tract infections , gout , congestive heartfailure with an ef of 35% , osteoarthritis , right lower lobe massshown to be a thymoma by a fine needle aspirate , status postthymoidectomy in 1977 and history of c. difficile.medications on admission: lasix 20 mg by mouth daily , glipizide5 mg by mouth daily , toprol-xl 100 mg by mouth daily , actos 50 mgby mouth daily , ambien 2.5 mg by mouth nightly p.r.n. insomnia.allergies: clindamycin causes rash. penicillin causes rash.social history: the patient does not use tobacco. she drinksthree glasses of alcohol per day. she is widowed , and lives athome in a duplex apartment upstairs from her son-in-law. she hasfive children.family history: significant for mother , father and brother allof whom died of myocardial infarction.physical examination on admission: vital signs: temperature96.0 , heart rate 115-150 , blood pressure 110/70 , respiratory rate18 and oxygen saturation 95% on room air. general: the patientis in no acute distress , breathing comfortably seated upright.neck: supple. jvp is 15 cm. lungs: crackles at the right lungbase. otherwise , clear to auscultation. cardiovascular:irregularly irregular. no murmurs , rubs or gallops appreciated.abdomen: soft , nontender , nondistended with active bowel sounds.extremities: 1+ edema bilaterally , right greater than left.extremities warm and well perfused. neuro: alert and orientedx3 , cranial nerves ii-xii intact. nonfocal neurological exam.skin: erythematous lesions on the back , with scaling.notable laboratory values on admission: sodium 129 , potassium5.3 , bun 47 , creatinine 1.4 , glucose 394. white blood count11.3 , hematocrit 45.7 , platelets 176.notable studies: pe protocol ct performed 10/15/06 at outsidehospital: bilateral pulmonary emboli. noninvasive vascularstudies of the lower extremities: on 9/17 partial dvt inright posterior tibial and right peroneal veins. total dvt inright common femoral , right superficial femoral , and rightpopliteal veins. chest x-ray 10/10/06 : right lower lobe massstable from previous. otherwise , clear. no fracturesappreciated. echocardiogram in 10/10/06 : ef of 15% , reducedfrom prior , although , atrial fibrillation. global hypokinesis.mild mitral regurgitation. mild tricuspid regurgitation.echocardiogram 12/10/06 : ejection fraction 20-25% , and globalhypokinesis with regional variation. the right ventricularsystolic function mildly reduced. mild left atrial enlargement.mild pre-dilated right atrium. moderately thickened aorticvalve. mildly diffusely thickened mitral valve.procedures: on 10/10/06 : ivc filter placement withoutcomplication by dr. zachary stovelhospital course by problem: this is an 85-year-old woman with ahistory of prior dvts and lower lobe lung mass , biopsy shown tobe a thymoma , who presents with bilateral pulmonary emboli andparoxysmal atrial fibrillation.hematology: the patient has bilateral pulmonary emboli asconfirmed by pe protocol ct. the patient was initiallyanticoagulated with heparin drip for ptt goal of 60-80 , and wasbridged to coumadin with an inr goal of 2-2.5. lower extremitynoninvasive studies showed right leg deep venous thrombosis asnoted above. an ivc filter was placed without complications on10/18/06. the patient was discharged on a coumadin dose of 7.5mg by mouth daily , and her inr will be followed by the bit university medical center coumadin clinic ( dr. kent ahlo ) , afterher discharge from rehabilitation.cardiovascular: rhythm: the patient was initially found to bein atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular response , with aheart rate of approximately 128 beats per minute. this was feltlikely to be secondary to pulmonary embolus. the patientrequired both metoprolol and diltiazem for rate and rhythmcontrol , and was discharged on both of these medications. shehad several episodes of rapid atrial fibrillation throughout herhospital course , requiring several boluses to metoprolol iv anddiltiazem iv. she was discharged on a regimen of metoprolol anddiltiazem p.o. to maintain her in stable normal sinus.pump: the patient had an echocardiogram revealing ejectionfraction of 15% while she was in atrial fibrillation , andejection fraction of 25% when the patient was in normal sinusrhythm. she was diuresed gently with lasix 20 mg by mouth daily.she was started on low-dose ace inhibitor on 8/11/06.ischemia: the patient has risk factors for coronary arterydisease , but has no chest pain or significant ekg changes duringthis admission. she may be considered for cardiaccatheterization in the future as an outpatient.endocrine: the patient has type ii diabetes mellitus with ahemoglobin a1c of 8.2. oral anti-diabetics were held during thisadmission , the patient was given basal and prandial insulin. shewas discharged back on her home diabetes regimen.onch: the patient has a right lower lobe lung mass which islikely thymoma by a fine needle aspirate. the patient was seenby the thoracic surgery service , as follow up for dr. evilsizerwho had seen her in clinic , and depending of the services thatsurgery was not recommended at this time until cardiovascular andpulmonary issues were stabilized. medical oncology was alsoconsulted , and it was recommended that chemotherapy would not bepursued at this time for this patient. both services recommendeda followup ct scan in several weeks to detect the progression ofthis right lower lobe lung mass. the decision of whether or notto treat this lung mass will be deferred until her pulmonaryembolism , cardiovascular , and pulmonary issues are stabilized.neuro: the patient has a history of drinking two to four drinksper day , but the patient did not have any signs or symptoms ofalcohol withdrawal during this admission.fluids , electrolytes and nutrition: the patient was repeatedwith electrolytes as necessary. she was given a cardiac andamerican diabetes association diet.prophylaxis: the patient was initially on heparin , which in turnwas bridged to coumadin.the patient was full code during this admission.plans: the patient should have regular blood draws to monitorher inr level while she is taking coumadin. this will be managedby the sher-pa meroo hase general hospital coumadin clinic run by dr.cristobal buckhanon , phone number 107-568-5779 while the patient isan outpatient. the patient should have diltiazem weaned off astolerated. ace inhibitor and metoprolol should be titratedupwards as tolerated by heart rate and blood pressure. thepatient has followup appointments scheduled with dr. grant bayley at liy hospital cardiology on 4/29/07at 9:40 a.m. , the phone number 776-170-8696. the patient alsohas a followup appointment with dr. quinton menjares at theton st.coke hospital thoracic surgery group on 1/25/07at 1:00 p.m. telephone number is 816-031-8787.discharge medications: will be dictated in the discharge summaryaddendum.escription document: 3-0300316 cssten teldictated by: dittmer , rickyattending: swales , anton r.dictation id 0400565d: 11/29/06t: 11/29/06