record #866755890148013 | stmc | 33525097 | | 606384 | 0/28/2000 12:00:00 am | chronic obstructive pulmonary disease | signed | dis | admission date: 5/25/2000 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/12/2000service: the patient received care on the wayal hospital . principal diagnosis: chronic pulmonary emboli.significant problem list: 1. sick sinus syndrome with pacemaker.2. chronic obstructive pulmonarydisease.3. restrictive airway disease.4. congestive heart failure.5. abdominal aortic aneurysm.6. history of peripheral vasculardisease.history of present illness: the patient is an 82-year-old femalewith a past medical history of chronicobstructive pulmonary disease and restrictive lung disease ,peripheral vascular disease status post right carotidendarterectomy , status post bilateral femoral to popliteal bypasssurgery , sick sinus syndrome status post cardiac pacemakerplacement in 1993 , history of squamous cell carcinoma and abdominalaortic aneurysm diagnosed two weeks prior to admission , whopresented to the town university emergency department on2/14 with a two day history of shortness of breath andparoxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and worsening fatigue times two weeks.the patient was recently admitted and evaluated in hoaprings whereshe spends a significant part of the winter , and was diagnosed witha viral syndrome and "asthma" flare. the patient was hospitalizedand underwent a cardiolite stress test which was negative , as perher dy memorial hospital primary care doctor ,dr. kuffa . the patient also had an echocardiogram done inbar highway , anri which demonstrated a normal ejection fraction , but evidenceof hypertrophic cardiomyopathy without obstruction. the patientwas evaluated with a ct scan in dale , indiana 70705 which demonstrated anabdominal aortic aneurysm greater than 5.0 cm. the patient had hadprior surgery on her abdominal aorta , and the patient was tofollow-up with dr. vandawalker at the stangiles hospital on6/7 .  the patient had also been found on the ct scan down inet to have a pelvic mass for which she had been evaluated byultrasound and gynecology follow-up has been arranged.past medical history: chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ,restrictive airway disease , congestive heartfailure. recent echocardiogram less than two weeks prior toadmission demonstrated normal ejection fraction and changesconsistent with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy without obstruction.dyslipidemia. squamous cell cancer in the past. sick sinussyndrome , status post pacemaker placement in 1993. peripheralvascular disease , status post bilateral femoral to poplitealbypass. status post right carotid endarterectomy. abdominalaortic aneurysm diagnosed two weeks prior to admission.depression. seizure disorder.allergies: penicillin and ampicillin cause nausea.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the short stay unitfor a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flareversus chronic pulmonary emboli. the patient had lower extremitynoninvasive studies which demonstrated a left popliteal veinthrombosis. the patient's v/q scan was initially set-up throughthe short stay unit. her v/q scan was subsequently performed andread out as intermediate probability of the lower end of thespectrum by the nuclear radiologist , with significant changesconsistent with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. the patientwas started on initially unfractionated heparin and thentransitioned to lovenox and coumadin , and started on prednisone fora presumed chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare. while thepatient was in the hospital , her respiratory status was stable withoxygen saturations in the high 90 percent range on a maximum of 2.0liters nasal cannula. at discharge , the patient was sent home offoxygen. the patient was evaluated by dr. kieffer for pacemakerfunction and the battery was in need of replacement. the patientwas taken to the procedure room on 6/7 and underwent pacemakerbattery replacement by dr. bieker without complication. while inthe hospital , the patient had a routine ct scan at the request ofdr. legeyt , who will follow-up with the patient regarding surgery onher abdominal aortic aneurysm shortly after discharge. the patientwas discharged in stable condition.physical examination: pertinent findings on physical examinationon the day prior to discharge. temperaturemaximum 98.8 , temperature current 98.4 , pulse 56 , blood pressure120/80 , respiratory rate of 20 , o2 saturation 95 percent on roomair. general , well-developed , well-nourished , in no apparentdistress. heent , pupils are equal , round , and reactive to light ,extraocular movements are intact , the mucous membranes are moist ,no pharyngeal injection , no conjunctiva injection , no icterus. theneck is supple , no thyromegaly , no lymphadenopathy , no masses.cardiovascular , regular rate and rhythm , s1 and s2 , clear toauscultation , no murmurs , no gallops , no rubs , jugular venouspressure at 8.0 cm , no carotid bruits bilaterally. the lungs arebilaterally clear to auscultation , no crackles , no rhonchi , nowheezes. the abdomen is soft , nontender , nondistended , positivebowel sounds , no hepatosplenomegaly , positive pulsatile abdominalmass measuring approximately 5.0 cm. bimanual examination ,extremities are warm , trace left-sided pedal edema , no clubbing , nocyanosis other than her left calf cord. neurologic examination ,alert and oriented times three. motor 5/5 proximal and distalmuscle groups tested. sensory and cranial nerve examinations werewithin normal limits.laboratory data: laboratory studies on the day prior to discharge ,sodium 143 , potassium 4.3 , chloride 105 ,bicarbonate 30 , bun 14 , creatinine 0.8 , glucose 141 , calcium 9.0 ,magnesium 2.0. white blood cell count 6.5 , hematocrit 35.8 ,platelets 255 , 000 , partial thromboplastin time 22.8. repeatechocardiogram during this hospitalization , ejection fraction 60percent , 2+ tricuspid regurgitation , 2+ mitral regurgitation ,systolic pulmonary artery pressure greater than 50.0 mm of mercuryabove the right atrial pressure , restrictive physiologydemonstrated mild aortic insufficiency and left atrial enlargement.operations and procedures: on 6/7 , pacer battery replacement ,no complications , dr. nollet operator.discharge medications: vitamin c 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. , atenolol 50mg p.o. q.d. , atrovent inhaler two puffsinhaled q.i.d. , lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q.d. , dilantin 60 mg q.a.m. ,60 mg q. noon , 120 mg q.h.s. all p.o. , zoloft 25 mg p.o. q.d. ,zocor 40 mg p.o. q.h.s. , flovent 220 mcg inhaled b.i.d. , calciumcarbonate and vitamin d one tablet p.o. b.i.d. , pepcid 20 mg p.o.q.h.s. , lovenox 40 mg subcutaneous q.12h , coumadin 2.5 mg p.o.q.d. , clindamycin 300 mg p.o. q.i.d. times three days , albuterolinhaler two puffs inhaled q.i.d. p.r.n. wheezing or shortness ofbreath.condition on discharge: stable.disposition: home.estimated disability: minimal.dictated by: ricky balangatan , m.d. iq03attending: hai d. rolf a kleban , m.d. yw3  qu218/5484batch: 30970 index no. p9tl5l9a0l d: 3/12t: 5/23cc: 1. irwin g. darwin m corban , m.d. pk5 niem and hospital . [report_end]