346434798 | wcemc | 55985231 | | 8003998 | 2/10/2003 12:00:00 am | unstable angina | signed | dis | admission date: 6/26/2003 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/29/2003chief complaint: chest pain.history of present illness: ms. dube is a 58-year-old femalestatus post stent to her leftcircumflex coronary artery three months prior to admission , with ahistory of non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , hyperlipidemia ,hypertension , who presents with left jaw pain for the last severaldays. she treated this at home with sublingual nitroglycerin withpartial relief of her pain. she presented to the emergency roomand had full resolution of her jaw pain with three sublingualnitroglycerin. of note , when the patient presented with a non-stelevation mi approximately three months prior , she also had leftjaw pain. since this pain was the patient's classic anginal pain ,heparin was started despite the fact that she had negative cardiacenzymes and no ekg changes.past medical history: non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus ,hypertension , hyperlipidemia , coronaryartery disease status post left circumflex stent in april 2002.anxiety , depression , left arm phlebitis associated with blood drawsafter her left circumflex stent was placed. status postappendectomy , status post tubal ligation.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications: glucophage , lipitor , atenolol , aspirin , sublingualnitroglycerin p.r.n. , zestril , celexa , klonopin ,neurontin.social history: the patient has a daughter who works for erdar y university hospitals she does not smoke nor does she drinkalcohol. her primary language is spanish.family history: positive for coronary artery disease. thepatient's father died of a myocardial infarctionat age 62 and her mother died of a myocardial infarction at age 75.vital signs: blood pressure 100-137/52-67 , pulse 60-62 ,respiratory rate 18 , oxygen saturation 97-98% on twoliters nasal cannula.physical examination: general: well appearing middle-aged female.neck: jvp flat. cardiovascular: regularrate and rhythm with normal s1 and s2. chest: clear toauscultation bilaterally. abdomen: soft , nontender , nondistended.positive bowel sounds. extremities: no lower extremity edema ,warm. rectal: the patient is guaiac negative.hospital course by systems: 1. cardiovascular. the patient wastaken for cardiac catheterizationafter she was admitted. her cardiac catheterization was onapril , 2003. prior to her catheterization she was enrolled inthe nacan cajord general hospital this was a blinded trial with permsan madiston ni hospital inhibitor. in accordance with the trial , the patient wasstarted on lovenox 1 mg per kg subcutaneously b.i.d. later thatafternoon on april , 2003 , she went for cardiac catheterization.the cath revealed a right dominant system with no significant leftmain lesions , no significant left anterior descending lesions , 70%diffuse lesion in the left circumflex artery consistent withinstant restenosis of her previously placed pixel stent. the rightcoronary artery showed a 30% lesion. during this catheterization ,brachytherapy to the vessel that showed instant restenosis wasattempted , however , it was aborted due to technical malfunction ofthe brachytherapy delivery machine. the lesion was , however ,dilated by balloon angioplasty. after dilatation there was timi-3flow with 10% residual stenosis.postcath the patient did well. she was maintained on aspirin ,zocor , lopressor , captopril , celexa , klonopin which are her homemedications. the morning after catheterization , the patient hadrecurrent chest pain which radiated to her right jaw. the pain wasrelieved with sublingual nitroglycerin. the following day , thepatient did well. however , she began to develop a right groinhematoma in the afternoon on july , 2003. the hematoma wasthought to be rapidly enlarging. hematocrit checked at that timerevealed a significant drop in blood count to 26. the patient wastransfused two units of packed red blood cells. her hematomacontinue to expand overnight. the patient was discontinued fromlovenox at that time. however , she was continued on aspirin andplavix. the patient's lovenox was reversed with protamine.over the night , the patient's hematoma continued to expand. shereceived , the following morning on march , 2003 , one unit offresh frozen plasma as well as a third unit of packed red bloodcells. at that point , her hematoma was marked and it was noted tobe stable from that point on , no longer expanding beyond the boundsof the marks. her left arm was noted at that time to also be tensewith hematoma secondary to blood draws. vascular surgery wasconsulted in the morning on march , 2003 , in order to assess theright groin hematoma as well as the hematoma in the left arm due toconcern for developing compartment syndrome. vascular surgery sawthe patient and felt that as long as the patient's hematocritstabilized , she would not need any surgical intervention. theycould not find any evidence for left upper extremity compartmentsyndrome at that time.also on the morning of march , 2003 , the patient's plateletsagents including both plavix and aspirin were discontinued.further family history was obtained from the patient that day whichrevealed history suspicious for possible bleeding disorderincluding the information that the patient's daughter bleedsheavily with each menstrual period , and that both the patient andher daughter have very easy bruising with history of severalhematomas secondary to light trauma. the patient also reportedthat she had heavy bleeding with childbirth that required extrahospitalization although it did not require a transfusion.hematology was consulted at that point. the patient was thought byhematology to have these hematomas secondary to overanticoagulation with lovenox , plavix , aspirin and possible stonde medical centertrial drug with a kenda medical center the only familialcoagulation problems that were screened for based on theirrecommendations were von willebrand screen as well as a factor xiiiscreen. the factor xiii screen eventually turned out normal andthe von willebrand screen was pending at the time of discharge.by the morning of august , 2003 , the patient had received a totalof five units of packed red blood cells due to blood loss secondaryto this hematoma. her hematoma had stabilized at that time. shewas restarted on aspirin on august , 2003. from that pointonward , the patient did quite well and was maintained on aspirin ,beta-blocker , zocor and ace inhibitor.the remainder of her hospitalization was uncomplicated and afterthe patient had a stable hematocrit for several days without anyrecurrent jaw pain , she was discharged home on january , 2003.neurology. on august , 2003 , the patient developed a headachewhich she described as the same as she frequently experiences athome. her headaches are usually not responsive to tylenol or otheranalgesics. given the patient's complications with hematoma andbleeding , a head ct was obtained that afternoon to rule outintracerebral hemorrhage. her head ct was negative for bleeding.her headache was treated with tylenol to which it did not respondand later with percocet to which she got some relief.discharge medications: aspirin 81 mg p.o. q day , klonopin 0.5 mgt.i.d. , glucophage 500 mg b.i.d. , celexa40 mg p.o. q.d. , zestril 2.5 mg q.d. , atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d. ,lipitor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s.follow up: the patient was instructed to follow up with herprimary care physician , dr. bazerdictated by: luke drentlaw , m.d. sn01attending: mark wilkes , m.d. jo16ly565/943229batch: 71748 index no. nnaj9w4537 d: 5/5/03t: 5/5/03