732450947 | fah | 42171941 | | 1561926 | 9/14/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 1/13/2005 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: george hong marske mdadmission diagnosis: bradycardia.discharge diagnoses: include bradycardia , diverticulosis andplantar fasciitis. other diagnoses treated over the patient'shospitalization includes insulin dependent diabetes mellitus ,hypertension , obstructive sleep apnea.operations and procedures: operations and procedures over hercourse include colonoscopy. no other procedures were performed.history of present illness: in brief , the patient is an82-year-old woman with a history of insulin dependent diabetesand hypertension who is in her usual state of health until themorning of presentation when she was sitting at breakfast shefelt an increased in drowsiness and faintness with gradual onsetover ten minutes while seated. she felt as if she was going tocollapse but had no visual or motor deficit. she called herdaughter. per report , the patient experienced no dysarthria orconfusion , no focal motor deficit. she stood and walked outsidenoting no changes with standing. she denies fall or loss ofconsciousness. she had some shortness of breath as well asdyspnea on exertion. at baseline , she has poor exercisetolerance to less than 30 feet without shortness of breath. onthe day of presentation this was reduced to less than ten feet.she had no chest pain or palpitations , no cough but mild urisymptoms. no fevers , chills , nausea or vomiting. she did haveone subjective temperature the day prior to admission , no changein stools. she had some feeling of urinary frequency but noburning , no leg pain or falls. she has had no recent change inoral intake. of note , the patient has had multiple presentationsto her primary care physician in the past for symptomaticbradycardia for which her medication regimen has been repeatedlychanged. of note , she was recently started on clonidine for herhypertension.past medical history: past medical history is notable forinsulin dependent diabetes , hypertension , a history of a urinarytract infection in the past , bradycardia , chronic edema in herlegs , obstructive sleep apnea. she has a history of a positiveppd. she is allergic to lisinopril which gives her angioedema aswell as ct contrast dye.medications on admission: her medications at the time ofadmission include avapro 75 mg b.i.d. , clonidine 0.2 mg p.o.b.i.d. , atenolol 100 mg p.o. daily , norvasc 10 mg p.o. daily ,insulin nph 20 b.i.d. , flonase , lasix 40 b.i.d. she deniestobacco or alcohol use.family history: negative for cardiovascular or lung disease.physical examination: her exam showed a temperature of 95.5 , aheart rate of 40 , blood pressure of 140/60 , respiratory rate of18 , oxygen saturation 99% on room air. she is comfortable. sheis fatigued with no acute distress. her extraocular movementsare intact. she has no scleral icterus. her neck is supple witha jvp of approximately 12. her heart is regular rate and rhythm ,s1 and s2 are normal. she is bradycardic. she has no murmurs ,rubs or gallops. lungs are clear bilaterally without wheezes orrales. her abdomen is obese but soft , nontender , no pulsatileliver is appreciated. extremities are warm and well perfusedwith 3+ edema to the knees. she is alert and oriented x3. herreflexes are 2+ bilaterally , 5/5 strength in bilateral upper andlower extremities. her cranial nerves are all intact.admission labs: admission labs are notable for a hematocrit of35.8 , a bun of 21 , and a creatinine of 1.4 which is essentiallyat the patient's baseline. the patient had three sets of cardiacenzymes which were all negative for ischemia. she had bloodcultures drawn which have returned no growth to date. her tsh attime of admission was 2.55 within the range of normal. chestx-ray showed low lung volumes , cardiomegaly without effusion orconsolidation. ekg was sinus rhythm 40 bpm , no q waves , no twave inversions , no new st segment elevation or depression. herqt corrected is 431 milliseconds. she had an echo january ,2004 showing an ejection fraction of 65% and normal valves.hospital course by system:1. cardiovascular: the patient was admitted for workup andtreatment of her symptomatic bradycardia. on reviewing thepatient's past medical records , it was noted that she hadexperienced similar symptoms with episodes of bradycardia relatedto medications in the past. she was noted to be on atenololwhich had been a longstanding medication for her as well asclonidine which had only been started in the preceding 2-3 days.atenolol was discontinued at the time of admission as it hadnodal blocking properties. additionally , clonidine was alsodiscontinued for its potential rare adverse reaction of causingbradycardia and at times heart block. her heart rate graduallyimproved over the course of her admission and by the time ofdictation her heart rate ranged from 60-75 at rest. the patientwas evaluated while inhouse. the patient had no loss ofconsciousness , anginal chest symptoms or worsening of herhypertension during this period. she was evaluated by thecardiology service at peley memorial health on the dayfollowing admission who found the patient likely not to requirepacemaker. the recommendation of the cardiology serviceadditionally recommended to hold clonidine and considerrestarting atenolol at a low dose of 25 mg p.o. daily. thepatient was subsequently re-evaluated by the electrophysiologyservice at the tu chihar hospital which assessed thepatient to likely not require a pacemaker given her improvementof her bradycardia with the discontinuation of her nodally activemedications. the patient was maintained on telemetry over thecourse of her hospitalization with no new or dangerousarrhythmias noted. in terms of ischemia , the patient had anegative workup for cardiac ischemia by enzymes x3 and had nofurther anginal symptoms or changes in her ekg to indicatemyocardial ischemia or infarction. in terms of her pumpfunction , the patient was assessed to be volume up at the time ofadmission and treated with one dose of lasix 40 iv. she wassubsequently continued on her outpatient dose of lasix 40 p.o.and will be discharged on lasix 40 p.o. b.i.d. she was noted tohave some improvement in her lower extremity edema over herhospital course but it was assessed to be chronic and likely notan issue to be further assessed by her outpatient physician. insummary , the patient will be discharged to home without furtheruse of atenolol. the recommendation of the hospital team is thatthe patient continue on her discharge medications forhypertensive control. these will be avapro 75 mg p.o. b.i.d. aswell as norvasc 10 mg daily. it is recommended that if thepatient has poorly controlled hypertension as an outpatient , shewill undergo a trial with an agent that has no activity at thesinoatrial node. our recommended agent would be doxazosin. ifthe patient continues to have bradycardia related to medicationsand is unable to have her hypertension controlled by medicationsthat do not cause bradycardia , she may need to be re-evaluated bythe electrophysiology service for placement of a pacemaker. atthis time though , there is no recommended electrophysiologicworkup remaining for the patient.2. gastrointestinal: at the time of admission , the patient hada known history of diverticulosis by colonoscopy as well asbarium enema , but had no history of acute bright red blood perrectum. she suddenly developed acute bleeding from her rectum onthe evening of november , 2005 to a volume of approximately 1.5- 2 liters. the patient was clearly orthostatic and unable tostand without dizziness. she had no pain with this bleeding andhad no evidence of hematemesis. the patient was transfused to atotal of four units of packed red blood cells with her hematocritstabilizing in the low 30s following a drop to 28.8. she wasevaluated by the gastroenterology service at nawsum medical center of who took the patient to colonscopy on march . shewas found on colonoscopy to have nonbleeding diverticuli as wellas evidence of fresh blood in the sigmoid colon. the diagnosiswas thus made that the patient had had a sigmoid diverticularbleed but was currently stable hemodynamically. the patient wasalso assessed by surgery who felt the patient not to be an urgentsurgical candidate but recommended nasogastric lavage if thepatient were to rebleed and further consultation with surgery inthat event. the patient was observed to be hemodynamicallystable over the remainder of her hospitalization with no evidenceof drop in blood pressure or new blood per rectum. herhematocrit remained stable in the range of 30 at time ofdischarge. she is recommended to follow up with her primary carephysician for observation and is instructed to return to theemergency department immediately if there are any signs ofgastrointestinal bleeding and either vomiting of blood or bloodin her stool. she is maintained on nexium for gastrointestinalprophylaxis over her course.3. endocrine: the patient has a known history of insulindependent mellitus and she was maintained on nph insulin at adose of 10 units subcutaneously b.i.d. following blood sugarswhich was reduced from her outpatient dose following blood sugarsin the range of 50-60 on day of admission. she was alsomaintained on an insulin sliding scale. during herhospitalization , the patient's history of refractory hypertensionwas concerning for the possibility that she may have some degreeof underlying renovascular hypertension. she has subsequentlyunderwent a secondary hypertension workup which included an a.m.cortisol level which was 10.8 which was in the low range ofnormal. she had an aldosterone level which was 2.8 which was lowand a plasmin renin activity 0.1 which is low. she completed a24 hour urine collection and the urine levels of cortisolmetanephrines and normetanephrines are still outstanding. it isrecommended that she follow up these levels with her outpatientphysician. as stated above , the patient's blood pressure waswell controlled on norvasc and avapro and on the morning ofdictation her systolic blood pressure was 120 mmhg.4. musculoskeletal: beginning on january , the patient beganto complain of bilateral foot cramps worse in the plantar aspectof her foot but also on the dorsum of her foot which wereexacerbated by dorsi and plantar flexion. she also describedvague pain in her right lateral calves. she subsequentlyunderwent lower extremity noninvasive ultrasound studies whichdemonstrated no evidence of venous clots in either of her legs.on exam , her legs demonstrated no tenderness to palpation overher major joints and no evidence of frank inflammation. she wasassessed to likely have plantar fasciitis on the basis ofexamination. the case was discussed with rheumatology whorecommended tylenol as well as hot or cold packs. the patientsubsequently received these treatments with improvement of hersymptoms. at the time of discharge though she continues to havesome left foot pain and rheumatology has been consulted toevaluate the patient more fully. their recommendations arepending at time of dictation. the patient complained ofdifficulty walking secondary to this bilateral foot pain and willbe discharged to a rehabilitation facility for further care.5. infectious disease: the patient had a urinalysis at the timeof admission as well as blood cultures , both of which werenegative. her chest x-ray at time of admission was withoutinfiltrate.6. ent: the patient was continued on her flonase at heroutpatient dose , stable without new complaints at time ofdictation.7. prophylaxis: the patient was maintained on lovenox for dvtprophylaxis which was subsequently discontinued following herdiverticular bleed. she is maintained on nexium forgastrointestinal prophylaxis. she will be discharged to arehabilitation facility in stable condition.follow up plan: follow up plan for her is with her primary carephysician , dr. ernzen dr. spulick is advised to follow thepatient's urinary cortisol as well as her 24 hour urinemetanephrines and normetanephrine levels. it is recommended thathe continue to follow his hypertension closely as he has been anduse whenever possible agents without sinoatrial nodal activity.recommended next agent if the patient continues to haverefractory hypertension would be doxazosin. the patient isadvised to pursue a high fiber diet in the context of herdiverticulitis and is advised to return to medical careimmediately if there are any new signs of gastrointestinalbleeding or vomiting of blood. again , the patient is notassessed to be a candidate for a pacemaker at this time due tothe likely medication related bradycardia that she experiencedalthough she continues to have new symptomatic bradycardia. itis recommended that she return for re-evaluation to theelectrophysiology service. she is recommended to follow up withphysical therapy as an inpatient at a rehabilitation facility andthen follow up with podiatry if indicated. please note thepatient's nph insulin dosing was decreased from her outpatientlevel from 20 to 14 units subcutaneously b.i.d. given thepatient's episodes of hypoglycemia on the day of admission duringwhich she was receiving 20 units subcutaneously. it is advisedthat her rehabilitation facility check daily fingersticks withmeals and adjust her nph dosing as appropriate.discharge medications: discharge medications will include colace100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. , nph insulin 14 unitssubcutaneously b.i.d. , norvasc 10 mg p.o. daily , flonase 1-2sprays daily , avapro 75 mg p.o. b.i.d. , tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.6h.escription document: 0-9438671 dbssten teldictated by: olwin , johnathonattending: leckband , jonathon russelldictation id 6491482d: 10/24/05t: 10/24/05