391076058 | rmh | 18644390 | | 1344198 | 3/23/2005 12:00:00 am | aortic stenosis , mitral regurgitation , tricuspid insufficiency , ?coronary artery disease | unsigned | dis | admission date: 3/23/2005 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 11/5/2005attending: dittberner , hugo delbert mdadmitting diagnosis: aortic insufficiency , mitral insufficiency , tricuspidinsufficiency and atrial fibrillation.history of present illness: this 78-year-old male with longhistory of moderate mitral regurgitation as well as aorticregurgitation. he was noted on ekg in 2003 to be in atrial fibrillationwas asymptomatic at that time. the patient also in october of2005 had an acute mi and at that time underwent angioplasty andstent placement with a drug-eluting stents of the lad and thediagonal arteries. he on admission was not on any plavix for thestents. he has been in congestive heart failure withmultivalvular dysfunction now noted to have severe pulmonaryhypertension with estimated pa pressures in 99 mmhg plus rapressures and referred for surgical repair of his valves.past medical history: the patient's past medical history issignificant for the aortic , mitral , and tricuspid regurgitation asstated above with high pa pressures as well as atrialfibrillation also as stated above , status post angioplasty withdrug-eluting stents of his lad and diagonal arteries. thepatient also has a history of hypercholesterolemia , recentimmunosuppressive therapy with prednisone 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. foritp. the patient also is in atrial fibrillation with coumadintherapy. the patient has history of squamous cell carcinoma ofhis left tonsils requiring xrt. his creatinine clearance isestimated as 55 ml per minute.past surgical history: bilateral inguinal hernia repairs in 1960and 1990 , wisdom teeth extractions in 2/27/05.family history: coronary artery disease. father had suddendeath without any obvious cause at the age of 62 and mother diedof colon cancer at the age of 65.social history: history of tobacco use. history of cigarsmoking.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications on admission: toprol 100 mg p.o. once a day , mavik 4mg p.o. b.i.d. , aspirin 81 mg p.o. once a day with coumadin p.o. once a day ,lasix 80 mg p.o. once a day , prednisone 20 mgp.o. b.i.d. and lipitor 10 mg p.o. once a day , zantac 150 mg p.o.b.i.d. and lipitor 10 p.o. at bedtime.physical examination: he is 6 foot 2 inches , 71 kilograms.temperature of 98 , heart rate of 78 , blood pressure in the rightarm of 102/62. blood pressure on the left arm 104/62 , o2 sat of98. heent: perrla , dentition without evidence of infection. nocarotid bruit. chest: no incision. cardiovascular: irregularrhythm with a systolic ejection murmur noted that isholosystolic. pulses , 2+ pulses bilaterally of the carotid ,radial and femoral and 1+ bilaterally of the dorsalis pedis andposterior tibial. allen's test of left upper extremity isindicated as poor waveform as well as the right. breath soundsclear bilaterally. abdomen: status post bilateral inguinalhernia repair , soft , no mass noted. rectal: deferred.extremities: without scarring , varicosity , or edema. neuro:alert and oriented with no focal deficits.laboratory data:on 10/10/05 , chemistries: sodium of 135 , k of 4.5 , chloride of100 , co2 of 30 , bun of 44 , creatinine 1.1 , glucose of 124 , andmagnesium of 2.4. hematology from 11/18/05 , white count of 9.4 ,hematocrit of 39 , hemoglobin of 13 , platelets of 120 , the pt ,inr , and ptt from the day before of the 28 of november , the preop values ptof 16 , inr 1.3 , and ptt of 22.9. echo on 6/6/05 , leftventricle was moderately dilated. overall lv function was low normal ,the estimated ef of 50-55. the ventricle wasmildly hypokinetic with regional variation and right ventriclesize is mildly enlarged , global right ventricular systolicfunction is moderately reduced. the left atrium is moderatelydilated and right atrium is moderately dilated. the aortic valveis trileaflet calcified and mild-to-moderate aortic regurgitationas noted. mitral valve is thickened and mildly retracted withmalcoaptation , moderate-to-severe mitral regurgitation in someviews. the valve does not appear to coapt. tricuspid valve isstructurally normal , but severe tricuspid regurgitation is notedwith pa pressures of 99 mmhg plus right heart pressures.pulmonic valve is indicated as normal with mild pulmonicregurgitation. aortic root size is normal measuring 3.6 cm , paarteries normal size , inferior vena cava is noted to be dilated ,but not pulsatile. ekg on 5/25/05 , atrial fibrillation at therate of 70. chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly.hospital course: the patient was admitted on 10/10/05 andunderwent a cardiac catheterization which showed 25% proximallad , 30% mid rca , right dominant circulation. the ventriculogramshowed an ejection fraction of 64%. hemodynamics pa mean of 22 ,pulmonary capillary wedge of 7 , cardiac output of 4.0 , cardiacindex of 2.1 and an svr of 1239 and pvr of 319 with moderateaortic insufficiency and moderate mitral insufficiency. thepatient was taken to the operating room on 11/18/05 , andunderwent an aortic valve replacement with a 23carpentier-edwards magna valve and a mitral valve repair with a23 carbomedics annuloflex ring and a tricuspid valve repair. thepatient also had bilateral maze procedure with also resection ofthe left atrial appendage , as well as his right atrial appendage.the patient had two a-wires and ventricular wire placed and wasinitially paced after the maze procedure. the patient came offthe heart lung machine on epinephrine , levo , andmilrinone and was taken up to the cardiac intensive care unit andextubated on late postop day #1. the patient's hospital courseby systems ,neurological: the patient remained intact with no focaldeficits , however , the patient experienced dysphasia due to histonsil cancer status post xrt , failing speech and swallow andfinally requiring a peg placement for nutritional support.cardiovascular: the patient was status post a maze procedure andinitially was paced and found to be in a junctional rhythm at 60then recovery of normal sinus rhythm , however , postoperativelyhad gone into a rate controlled atrial fibrillation requiringlow-dose beta-blocker as well as anticoagulation. however , hedid see few episodes of sinus rhythm and currently on dischargesin sinus rhythm and rate controlled on low-dose beta-blocker.the patient did have an echo postoperatively to evaluate hisvalve replacement and repair and found to have normal lv size andfunction with an ef of 55%. the patient had mild rv enlargement ,mild left atrial enlargement as well as right atrial enlargement.the aortic valve was noted to be well seated with trace ai ,mitral valve status post repair showed mild mitral regurgitation ,tricuspid valve status post repair showed mild tricuspid repairwith pa pressures of 40 mmhg. there was no pericardial effusionfound and patient will be discharged on low-dose beta-blocker aswell as anticoagulation.respiratory: patient was extubated on late postoperative day #1and patient was on lasix for diuresis postoperatively. thepatient , however , on postoperative day #10 , was noted to have atemperature and culture showed that he had enterobacter in hissputum and is being treated with ceftriaxone for a 14-day course.his discharge chest x-ray shows no evidence consolidation andmild atelectasis at the left base , no pulmonary edema noted.gi: the patient had a history of gerd and was on zantacpreoperatively and was on proton pump postoperatively andswitched over to pepcid for gi prophylaxis. the patient also wasclosely followed by the speech and swallow team and due to hisdysphagia status post squamous cell carcinoma resection of hisleft tongue and xrt , patient continues to have dysphasia , unableto protect his airway and by postoperative day #14 underwent apeg placement and now at goal of 70 ml per hour to see if he istolerating without any problems. the patient however was ondiuresis for a period of time and required few doses of fluidbolus for his volume status.renal: the patient had a stable bun and creatinine throughouthis postoperative course , was on lasix for diuresis postopwithout no elevation in his creatinine.endocrine: the patient was on portland protocol intraoperativelyand switched over to sliding scale insulin postoperatively due to histube feeds. he is on regular insulin standing now at 6 unitswith sliding scale for coverage.heme: the patient was noted to have a drop in his plateletspostoperatively. two hit screens were sent which were found tobe negative and patient had recovery of his platelets withdischarge platelets of 196. the patient will be discharged oncoumadin for atrial fibrillation. today's inr is 2.1 and he willbe getting his preop dose of 2.5 mg tonight and to follow closelywith his inr. he is also on baby aspirin for his coronary arterydisease and patient was not on plavix for his stentpreoperatively and will not be on discharge.id: the patient received vancomycin for surgical prophylaxis.on postoperative day #10 , the patient was noted to have atemperature of 101 and was cultured. sputum grew outenterobacter and patient was started on ceftriaxone and willcomplete a 14-day course of ceftriaxone. the patient during thattime received neb treatments , chest physical therapy and is stillcontinuing to bring up some secretion. the patient was notedalso to have a heel blister on his left heel which was debridedand now is very clean and dry ulcer that was evaluated by theskin nurse and felt that xeroform would be the best treatment atthis time and the legs should be elevated on pillows to relieveany pressure off of the heel for continual healing andprevention or breakdown. the patient is in stable condition andhas been accepted to a rehab bed on postoperative day #20 andwill be discharged to the rehab facility in stable condition onthese following medications.discharge medications:acetaminophen 325 mg to 650 mg p.o. q. 4h. p.r.n. fever , entericcoated aspirin 81 mg p.o. once a day , ceftriaxone 2000 mg ivdaily x3 more dose to complete a 14-day course , colace 100 mgp.o. t.i.d. , pepcid 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. , insulin scale as well asinsulin regular at 6 units subq q. 6h. , but to hold when tf are off ,lisinopril 5 mg p.o. once a day , lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. q.i.d. ,niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , prednisone 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. , oceanspray inhaler q.i.d. x5 days , duoneb inhaler p.r.n. wheezing ,lipitor 10 mg p.o. once a day , coumadin to take as directedtonight's dose will be 2.5 mg p.o. once a day.follow-up appointments:the patient should follow his coumadin dosing as he didpreoperatively with his primary care physician , dr. menningerhis phone number is ( 129 ) 334-5253. the patient should also makethese follow-up appointments with his cardiologist , dr.bissel in two weeks. his phone number is ( 864 ) 982-8318.if he is unable to make this appointment , he should see his pcp ,dr. santiago in two weeks. he should also make an appointmentwith his pcp in two to four weeks for evaluation. his phonenumber is ( 129 ) 334-5253. the patient should follow up with dr.etienne in six weeks for postsurgical evaluation. his phonenumber is ( 889 ) 804-9101.disposition:this is adrian floerchinger , pa , completing a discharge summary onrashad defrain who will be discharged to the rehab facility instable condition on postop day #20.escription document: 6-6597530 jssten teldictated by: saporito , aliattending: moroney , conrad cornelldictation id 2781022d: 1/14/05t: 1/14/05