980252674 | nhhh | 78150695 | | 8185329 | 8/27/2006 12:00:00 am | pulmonary edema | signed | dis | admission date: 8/27/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 7/5/2006attending: spradley , chas m.d.operations:1. cabg x3 ( y-graft sequential: lima connects aorta to lad ,sequential svg1 connects lima to om1 and then pda )/left atrialappendage resection.2. insertion of a pacemaker on 2/19/2006 .history of present illness: mr. wagenblast is a 76-year-old man withhistory of atrial fibrillation who is admitted to et monthilt ria hospital last month with atrial fibrillation with rapidventricular response. at that time , he also had arm pain andpulmonary edema. this resolved once his heart rate wascontrolled. he has had atrial fibrillation for the past 30 yearsand has been on coumadin for the past 20. the patient has beenon amiodarone therapy in the past and has biopsy-demonstratedcirrhosis as a consequence of this therapy , which has resolvedfollowing the discontinuation of the medication. he has beenrate controlled since that time but is very sensitive even withslight delay in his rate-slowing medications with heart ratebecoming rapid associated with a sensation of aching in his arms.he also has a history of peripheral vascular disease withendarterectomy of the external iliac , common femoral , and tsawith patch angioplasty on the left in april 2000 at rmh .  healso has a cerebrovascular disease with mri a few years ago alsoshowing evidence of old small infarcts involving the rightinferior cerebellum and the old lacuna in the left anterior ponsand some patchy areas of the bilateral pons , small areas ofischemia. he was thought to have basilar artery disease byneurology. he complains that right side is less sensitive totemperatures and touch than the left side but no difference inmotor activities is noted. he also has a history of coronaryartery disease. as an outpatient , mibi in september 2006 showed1-mm st depression but no ischemia on imaging. left ventricularejection fraction was noted to be 45% without any regional wallmotion abnormalities. elective catheterization showedthree-vessel disease and was admitted to the carecog hospital for cabg.preoperative cardiac status: urgent. the patient presented withcritical coronary anatomy. there is a history of class iii heartfailure. the patient is in atrial fibrillation.previous cardiovascular interventions: none.past medical history: hypertension , peripheral vascular diseaseof the lower extremities , status post endarterectomy of theexternal iliac , common femoral , and tsa with patchy angioplastyon the left in april 2000 , diabetes mellitus with insulintherapy , hypercholesterolemia , migraine headache , and bilaterallower extremity neuropathy due to diabetes.past surgical history: surgery for a torn right rotator cuff ,august 2006 , and as above.family history: father had a stroke.social history: history of tobacco use , cigarette smokinghistory but quit smoking many years ago.allergies: penicillin - skin edema , quinidine - rash , andamiodarone - cirrhosis of the liver.admission medications:1. diltiazem 360 p.o. daily.2. lisinopril 10 mg p.o. daily.3. aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.4. coumadin p.o. as directed.5. lasix 20 mg p.o. daily.6. simvastatin 80 mg p.o. daily.7. metformin 500 mg b.i.d.8. insulin.cardiac catheterization data: coronary anatomy: 95% mid lm , 60%ostial lad , 50% proximal circumflex , 100% proximal rca , rightdominant circulation , and marginal diffuse 99%.ecg: atrial fibrillation at 90 beats per minute , nonspecificintraventricular delay , q-waves in v3 , poor r wave progression ,precordial leads , and st elevation in v2 and v3.chest x-ray: normal , atherosclerotic aortic knob.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the intensive careunit following an uncomplicated coronary artery bypass graft asdescribed above as well as a left atrial appendage resection.his bypass time was 106 minutes with cross-clamp time of 61minutes. one ventricular wire and one pericardial tube wasplaced. a retrosternal tube and a right pleural tube were alsoplaced. please see dictated operative note for details.following his operation , he was transferred to the icu forfurther care and management. the patient was extubated onpostoperative day #1 and was given supplemental o2 nasal cannulaat that time. on postoperative day #2 , the patient's chest tubeswere removed , and his pacing wires were left in place since thepatient was found to be asystolic as an underlying rhythm. thepatient remained in atrial fibrillation and alternated with sinusrhythm with first-degree av block. his atrial fibrillation wasdifficult to control in the acute postoperative setting , andcardiology consult was obtained for further care and managementof the patient. on postoperative day #3 , the patient hadshortness of breath and was given lasix for diuresis. he was 2liters negative on postoperative day #3 , though he was stillincreased from his preoperative weight. his pacing wires werediscontinued on postoperative day #3 as the patient was found tohave return of his underlying rhythm. he was started onlopressor and on diltiazem at that time. on postoperative day#4 , the patient's diltiazem was changed to diltiazem cd 360 mgand atenolol 50 mg daily per dr. caffarel . the patient wasgiven a pt consult for home safety evaluation on that day. onpostoperative day #8 , the patient had an episode of symptomaticsinus bradycardia and as a result received a transvenouspacemaker by the electrophysiology service for the control of thesinus bradycardia , and on the day of discharge from the icu , thepatient was taken for permanent pacemaker placement by theelectrophysiology team.the patient's pain was controlled with tylenol withoutsignificant pain requirement issues. he was intactneurologically on day of discharge , moving all four extremities ,and appropriate. from a cardiovascular standpoint , the patientwas given his pacemaker and was still in atrial fibrillation ashis underlying rhythm. he was given 50 of atenolol as well asextended release of diltiazem 360 daily. he was on room sattingappropriately and was given atrovent on a p.r.n. basis. he wastolerating pos and getting nexium and colace from a giperspective. the patient was receiving diuresis with lasix of 40p.o. b.i.d. , and his electrolytes were supplemented. from ahematologic standpoint , he was given aspirin 81 mg , and hiscoumadin will be restarted. he had no significant infectiousdisease issues on the day of discharge. from endocrineperspective , the patient was given nph 24 units q.a.m. and 20units q.p.m and his baseline sliding scale in addition to novolog10 units as a standing order.disposition: the patient was discharged to the cardiac step-downunit.discharge condition: good.followup: the patient was instructed to follow up with hisattending physician , dr. darras , in 1-2 weeks followingdischarge.escription document: 1-7813890 hffocusdictated by: dux , andreasattending: strenge , tomasdictation id 6798657d: 7/15/06t: 7/15/06