record #1109990823337 | amc | 60025782 | | 8792345 | 11/12/2006 12:00:00 am | congestive heart failure , atrial fibrillation | signed | dis | admission date: 8/26/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 4/2/2006attending: coffell , tomas mdhistory of present illness:the patient was admitted for an elective right heartcatheterization and reassessment of refractory chf and atrial fibrillation heis a 62-year-old man witha history of nonischemic cardiomyopathy with an ef of 30% who was diagnosedabout ten years ago and has been stable with medical managementuntil this past year when he started developing worsening dyspneaon exertion , orthopnea , palpitations , and pnd. his functionalstatus has declined significantly since then. in 7/26 , he wasadmitted for decompensated heart failure and diuresed back to dryweight. an icd was placed at that time. following discharge , hedeveloped afib with rapid ventricular response and underwent dccardioversion with dr. gerry canseco however , relapsed shortly ,thereafter. he was started on amiodarone , but developed aquestion of pulmonary toxicity with significant dry coughing. hewas continued to be in atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricularresponse despite maximal carvedilol and digoxin. he is now beingelectively admitted for right heart catheterization , diuresis ,and possible repeat cardioversion versus amiodarone challenge ,and completion of his transplant evaluation.past medical history:nonischemic cardiomyopathy , ef of 30% , atrial fibrillation statuspost icd placement , echo in 1/28 with an ef of 30-35% with adilated lv and anterior wall and septal hypokinesis , mild mitralregurgitation , hypertension , hyperlipidemia , and diabetes.medications at home:include aspirin 325 mg daily , carvedilol 25 mg b.i.d. , digoxin0.125 mg daily , lasix 60 mg p.o. daily , lisinopril 20 mg p.o.daily , vytorin 10 mg p.o. daily , protonix 40 mg p.o. daily ,metformin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. , glyburide 2.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,coumadin , iron sulfate 325 mg daily , and magnesium gluconate 500mg p.o. b.i.d.allergies:he has a questionable allergy to amiodarone.social history:lives on ence he does not drink , smoke , or use any otherdrugs.physical exam on admission:he was afebrile with a heart rate of 106 in atrial fibrillation.his blood pressure is 102/78 and satting 98% on room air. he wasin no distress. his jvp was approximately 12 cm. he had a rightventricular heave. his rate was irregularly irregular with ans3 , no murmurs. chest is clear to auscultation. he had apalpable pulsatile liver tip , but otherwise , his abdomen wasbenign. he had no lower extremity edema.hospital course by system:he is a 62-year-old man with nonischemic cardiomyopathy , ef 30% ,awaiting transplant who is now admitted for right heartcatheterization and diuresis for volume overload and possibleamiodarone challenge versus cardioversion , rate and rhythmcontrol atrial fibrillation.cardiovascular: the patient had no evidence of ischemia. he wasmildly volume overloaded and was gently diuresed with p.o. lasixand eventually b.i.d. p.o. torsemide at 60 mg b.i.d. he wasdiuresed onto his dry weight of 70 kilograms. he underwentexercise stress testing and was able to go for 7 minutes withoutany ischemic changes. his rhythm rate was in atrial fibrillationthroughout. he has peak oxygen uptake with above is anaerobicthreshold and his peak respiratory exchange ratio was 1.44. heunderwent a chest ct , which showed no evidence of amiodaronepneumonitis or interstitial disease , and then was subsequentlystarted on amiodarone challenge in attempts to rhythm and ratecontrol of atrial fibrillation. he was resistant to theamiodarone in terms of rate and rhythm control; however , begandeveloping elevated lfts consistent with amiodarone hepatitis aswell as a persistent dry cough concerning for amiodaronepulmonary toxicity. the amiodarone was stopped and he wasstarted on dofetilide at 125 mg p.o. b.i.d. for correcting forhis creatinine clearance. after 2 doses of dofetilide , heconverted to normal sinus rhythm and was rate controlled in the70s and 80s. his qtc was followed twice a day and did not showany signs of prolongation. he was finally being discharged ondofetilide for rate and rhythm control as he is now in normalsinus rhythm. he will also go home on torsemide 60 mg p.o.b.i.d. to maintain his dry weight. he has been instructed tocontinue taking his glyburide , but not his metformin given hispoor creatinine clearance being discharged with a creatinine of1.6 and the fact that he is on metformin. he will see hisprimary care doctor and will either likely be started on low-doseinsulin or another oral hypoglycemic agent. he will follow upwith his primary care doctor and dr. rosasco for continuedtransplant evaluation.discharge medications:include carvedilol 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. , darbepoetin 100 mcgsubcutaneous q. week , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. every other day ,dofetilide 125 mcg p.o. b.i.d. , vytorin one tab p.o. daily , ironsulfate 325 mg p.o. b.i.d. , glyburide 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , potassium40 meq p.o. daily , lisinopril 10 mg p.o. daily , protonix 40 mgp.o. daily , torsemide 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. , coumadin 2 mg p.o.q.p.m.final addendum:the patient will continue taking his coumadin for goal inr of 2-3and follow up at the vent buffbo medical center coumadin clinic , in addition , hereceived one unit of packed red blood cells for anemia of chronicdisease and was given iv iron therapy and will continue thepatient on oral iron replacement.escription document: 3-0962757 emssten teldictated by: grabill , sergioattending: loll , jacintodictation id 0675605d: 4/15/06t: 4/15/06[report_end]