record #116298226519411 | ouomc | 65977682 | | 4475721 | 0/16/2005 12:00:00 am | anemia | signed | dis | admission date: 2/1/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/28/2005attending: hickonbottom , nathanael mdadmission diagnoses: panhypopituitarism , easy bruising , alteredmental status , and lower extremity edema/rash.history of present illness: the patient is a 27-year-old femalewith a history of craniopharyngioma , status post resection andxrt 11 years ago complicated by panhypopituitarism and cognitiveimpairment. at baseline , the patient has difficulty stayingfully awake , difficulties with reading and writing , andshort-term memory deficits. she also reports easy bruising andrecent nose bleeds that were treated with packing of the nose.she has had bruising in the arms and feet for about two weeks.she also reported dyspnea on exertion for about 10 days with somelightheadedness with standing , and an increase in her lowerextremity edema.review of systems: otherwise negative. she denied cough ,fevers , chills , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , pnd ,orthopnea , or uri symptoms. her mental status at this pointappeared to be at baseline.past medical history: craniopharyngioma , status post resectionand xrt.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications on admission:1. ritalin-sr 20 mg p.o. daily.2. levoxyl 274 mcg p.o. daily. the patient reports that this ison hold.3. aviane ( ocp ) 1 tablet p.o. daily.4. cortef 20 mg p.o. q.a.m.5. ddavp 0.2 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 0.4 mg p.o. q.h.s.6. multivitamin.7. melatonin.8. cpap.9. no doz p.r.n.10. provigil 600 mg p.o. q.a.m.11. humatrope 40 units q.p.m. the patient reports that this toowas on hold.social history: the patient denies tobacco and alcohol use. sheis a graduate student who lives with her mother.of note , her last mri was in march 2005 that showed apartially empty sella , otherwise negative.physical examination: vital signs: temperature 96 , pulse 18 ,blood pressure 110/76 , respiratory rate normal , and o2 saturation99% on room air. general appearance: morbidly obese female ,sleepy , arousable , in no acute distress. heent: anictericsclerae , oropharynx was clear. pupils were equally round andreactive. extraocular movement intact. neck: supple. obese.chest: clear to auscultation bilaterally. cvs: regular rhythmand bradycardiac. no murmurs , rubs , or gallops. abdomen:benign. extremities: no cyanosis or clubbing , 1+ pitting edemato the ankles with some erythematous skin ( baseline ).labs and diagnostic studies:1. chem-7: notable for a creatinine of 0.9 , bun of 28 , andbicarbonate of 30.2. cbc: notable for white blood count of 2.15 , hematocrit 29 ,and platelets 64.3. coagulations: pt 14 , ptt 56 , and inr 1.1.4. ua: showed 1-3 white blood cells with 10-15 casts. uhcg wasnegative.5. ekg: showed sinus bradycardia at a rate of 52 beats perminute with first-degree av and nonspecific st-t wave changes.6. chest x-ray: showed no infiltrate or effusion.initial assessment and brief summary: this is a 27-year-oldfemale with a history of craniopharyngioma , status post resectionand xrt in 1993 with subsequent panhypopituitarism and chronicsleepiness. she was admitted to the general medical service on8/0/05 with a two-week history of a.m. confusion , visual changes ,ataxia , tinnitus , bilateral lower extremity edema , and shortnessof breath. she had also had easy bruising and a severe episodeof epistaxis requiring cauterization. her blood work was notablefor pancytopenia. she then had swelling of her hands and arms aswell as a rash. mri in 11/2 showed no change or evidence oftumor recurrence. the patient , while on the general medicalservice , had an extensive rheumatologic , neurologic , andhematologic workup , at which point she underwent both bone marrowbiopsy and unsuccessful lp under iv conscious sedation. thepatient became unresponsive and hypothermic about 2 hours afterher bone marrow biopsy and was therefore transferred to the micuon 10/9/05 for closer observation. she seemed encephalopathicduring this stay and was started empirically on ampicillin ,cefoxitin , and acyclovir. she was then sent for a ct-guidedlumbar puncture requiring intubation. she was extubated on11/24/05 . she was then transferred out to the floor where shecontinued to improve. hospital course in more detail by systembelow.hospital course:1. the patient has a history of obstructive sleep apnea and usescpap at home. her outpatient pulmonologist at the ceanmin chbre memorialwas contacted who confirmed this. on admission , she had a normalo2 saturation with a relatively clear chest x-ray. however , shebecame hypothermic and unresponsive following her bone marrowbiopsy. she also required intubation for ct-guided lumbarpuncture for airway protection in the setting of her excessivesedation. she was extubated on 11/24/05 and her oxygen wasquickly weaned off. since then she has been oxygenating andventilating well on room air. cpap was continued at night. shehas had no other pulmonary complications.2. cvs. the patient has no history of cardiac disease. anechocardiogram done on 1/3/05 showed normal lv function withpreserved ejection fraction , no wall motion abnormalities ,moderate tricuspid regurgitation , and mild mitral regurgitation.in terms of her rhythm , the patient has a resting bradycardia inthe 30s to 40s that is thought to be secondary to increased vagaltone and has no hemodynamic consequence. she received atropinewhile in the icu at 1 mg x 1 on two separate occasions; in thefirst instance for bradycardia to a heart rate of 19 in thesetting of getting vasoconstrictors for a low blood pressure andthe second time when she had a heart rate down to 30. after thepatient was transferred out to the floor , we did obtain adedicated ep service cardiology consult , who evaluated thepatient. they confirmed that her bradycardia is most likely dueto vagal tone. she responds appropriately with an increase inher heart rate with exertion. in this young woman , it was deemedthat a pacemaker would not be an appropriate choice. she didhave 3-4 second pauses on one occasion on the floor but had norecurrence throughout the rest of her stay. if after dischargeshe develops further pauses or a syncopal episode , this issue canbe revisited. while she was in house , we did keep atropine andzoll pads at the bedside but did not have to use it once she wastransferred out of the icu. in terms of ischemia , the patienthad a slightly elevated ck-mb on admission , but she has had anormal echocardiogram and negative troponin since.3. renal. the patient developed acute renal failure during theearly part of her stay thought secondary to acyclovir , which hadbeen given for presumptive meningitis. her abdominal ultrasoundwas negative and urine eosinophils were also negative. hercreatinine improved with appropriate hydration and was normal atthe time of discharge ( creatinine equal to 1.0 ).4. the patient does have a history of hypernatremia. initially ,her home ddavp was held for fear that it would be difficult todiurese her if she became volume overloaded given her somewhatelevated creatinine. however , her sodium continued to increaseto 155 despite getting free water repletion , so her ddavp wasrestarted on 7/3/05 . she was discharged on her home dose ofddavp of 0.2 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 0.4 mg p.o. q.p.m. with one nasalspray q.h.s. her sodium at the time of discharge was 145. shehas been followed by the endocrine service in house for this.they have recommended that she not increase her home dose ,instead she will aggressively increase her p.o. water intake inorder to maintain her normal sodium. she will follow up in twoweeks with dr. kearley of endocrine who will recheck herelectrolytes at that time.5. derm/rheumatology. the patient was evaluated by both ofthese services during her stay. she had biopsies done of severallocations that showed nonspecific pathology consistent with mixedconnective tissue disease. however , her serologies have , for themost part , been negative. she was treated presumptively withstress-dose and eventually pulse steroids. these were taperedtowards her stay. she will be discharged on a quick taper ofhydrocortisone 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. for two days , after which shewill revert to her home dose of 20 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 10 mg p.o.q.p.m.6. endocrine. the patient has panhypopituitarism and wasfollowed by the endocrine service throughout her stay. in termsof her thyroid function , the patient was continued on her homedose of levoxyl. it was difficult to interpret her tsh in thesetting of panhypopituitarism; therefore we followed her t4 , t3 ,and free t4 levels. these were rechecked towards the end of herstay once she had recovered from her acute illness and in lightof a slightly decreased free t4 level , her levoxyl was increasedto 275 mcg p.o. daily at the time of discharge.7. diabetes insipidus. the patient's hypernatremia wascorrected with d5 water and increasing her p.o. fluid intake.she was also put back on her home dose of ddavp.8. growth hormone. there was no indication for growth hormonereplacement.9. adrenal insufficiency. the patient completed a course ofstress dose steroids for her procedures and then got pulsesteroids per wound for a question of lupus versus mixedconnective tissue disorder. however , this was tapered over herstay and she will be discharged on a very brief taper. she willgo back to her home regimen of hydrocortisone.10. gonadotropins. the patient was continued on aviane ( ocp )during her stay.11. neurologic. the patient had no clear etiology for herhypersomnolence. she was followed by the neurologic service inhouse. she does not appear to be hypercarbic or hypoxic. herinfectious workup was entirely negative and she was thereforetaken off antibiotics. her eeg showed nonspecific diffuseslowing with no seizure foci. the default diagnosis has beenthat some of her symptoms , including her altered mental status ,lower extremity edema , rash , and perhaps even pancytopenia , maybe secondary to provigil. this was therefore discontinued andshe should not start this once she returns home. initially , herstimulants were held for fear that they were contributing to herpancytopenia. however , her ritalin was restarted once her countsstarted to recover. she was discharged on ritalin-sr 20 mg p.o.b.i.d. her mental status seemed to improve on this regimen. atthe time of discharge , she was awake , alert , able to conversewell , and at her baseline.12. hematologic. the patient presented with pancytopenia , againof unclear etiology. bone marrow biopsy was negative forleukemia , lymphoma , and myelodysplasia. rather , it wasconsistent with a viral effect or drug effect. her counts hadresolved by the time of discharge with a white blood count equalto 9.26 , hematocrit of 27.6 , and platelets of 266. this too mayhave been due to provigil effect.13. prophylaxis. the patient was maintained on pepcid for giprophylaxis and heparin for dvt prophylaxis.14. code. full.15. id. the patient had multiple blood , urine cultures , and csfcultures sent. these were all negative. of note , stool culturewas positive for c. difficile. she was therefore started on p.o.flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. on 3/18/05 . she will complete a 14-daycourse of this antibiotic.disposition: home with vna services.condition on discharge: satisfactory.complications during this hospital stay: none.to do/followup plan:1. the patient should follow up with her pcp in 1-2 weeks.2. the patient should follow up with dr. bodenstein in the endocrinedepartment in 2-4 weeks. she can be reached at 586-252-5253.3. the patient should aggressively increase her oral waterintake in order to keep her sodium within normal limits.4. the patient should call her doctor if she has any changes inher mental status or if she develops nausea , vomiting , abdominalpain , rash , shortness of breath , lightheadedness , or any otherworrisome symptoms.5. of note , the patient's biopsy sutures on her left abdomen andright forearm were removed on the day of discharge. these areasappear to have healed well. her central line was also removed on6/1/05 without complications.discharge medications:1. pepcid 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.2. hydrocortisone 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. x 4 doses starting in thea.m. of 4/26/05 .3. hydrocortisone 20 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 10 mg p.o. q.p.m.starting on 8/24/05 ( p.m. dose to be given at 4 p.m. )4. levoxyl 275 mcg p.o. daily.5. flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. x 13 days.6. multivitamin 1 tablet p.o. daily.7. ddavp 0.2 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 0.4 mg p.o. q.p.m.8. ddavp nasal spray , 1 spray q.h.s.9. ritalin-sr 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.10. aviane 1 tablet p.o. daily.11. miconazole nitrate 2% topical powder applied to affectedareas b.i.d.escription document: 1-0684620 isdictated by: mogel , nickyattending: lacorte , lawerencedictation id 0635421d: 2/11/05t: 9/29/05[report_end]