record #116914660824962 | hdacmc | 54756033 | | 048564 | 7/27/1997 12:00:00 am | r/o myocardial infarction | signed | dis | admission date: 7/27/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 4/22/1997final diagnosis: ( 1 ) unstable angina( 2 ) coronary artery disease( 3 ) diabetes mellitushistory of present illness: the patient is a 62 year old femalewith history of coronary arterydisease who presented with unstable angina. the patient's cardiacrisk factors include diabetes mellitus , hypercholesterolemia , andpost-menopausal. she presented to an outside hospital in 1992 withsubsternal chest pain. a cardiac catheterization at that timerevealed an right coronary artery with diffuse disease , moderate tosevere proximal left anterior descending artery lesion at diagonal1 , moderate mid- left anterior descending artery lesion , and atight left circumflex. she underwent a ptca of the left circumflexartery with improvement. she was well until approximately one yearago when she began having exertional chest pain. her chest painhas been worsening over the past several months and has beenoccurring with less and less exertion. she was admitted in augustof 1996 for chest pain and ruled out for a myocardial infarction.an exercise thallium test was negative. she was well until februaryof 1997 when she again developed exertional chest pain. she saidthat the chest pain was substernal. it had no radiation and nonausea or vomiting and no diaphoresis. she had an exercise test on0/21/97 where she was only able to exercise for three minutes andstopped secondary to shortness of breath. she was scheduled for anelective catheterization on 8/27/97 but her chest pain has beenslowly worsening over the past couple of months. she reports ahistory of exertional chest pain at only one-half block. normallyher chest pain was relieved with one sublingual nitroglycerin. onthe evening prior to admission she woke up at 3 a.m. with severesubsternal chest pain. she had no relief with three sublingualnitroglycerin and , therefore , presented to the emergency room.in the emergency room she was made pain-free with iv nitroglycerin.past medical history: coronary artery disease as above. diabetesmellitus.medications: lopressor 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , aspirin 325 mg p.o.q.d. , zocor 20 mg p.o. qhs , and metformin.allergies: no known drug allergies.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the emergency roomdepartment with chest pain but became pain-freewith sublingual nitroglycerin. the heparin was started in theemergency room and the patient was given aspirin. the patient'sadmission ecg demonstrated sinus bradycardia with no changes fromher previous ecg.during the first several days of admission the patient begancomplaining of some left chest pain but , on further questioning ,the pain was under her left breast and radiating to her right backand she was tender to palpation. examination under the left breastrevealed three to four vesicles on an erythematous base felt to beconsistent with zoster. the patient was therefore started onfamvir with some improvement of the pain and the lesion. inaddition to the superficial chest pain the patient did have somechest pain which was felt to be cardiac in origin although she didnot have any ecg changes. she was continued on nitroglycerin andheparin and her lopressor was increased as tolerated.the patient underwent a cardiac catheterization on 5/2/97.although the final catheterization report is not available yet , thecatheterization showed three vessel disease with normal leftventricular function. it was felt that the patient needed to gofor coronary artery bypass graft but , due to the fact that she hadthe herpes zoster under her left breast , it was decided to wait todo the coronary artery bypass graft until her zoster had improved.therefore the patient was discharged to home and will undergocoronary artery bypass graft in several weeks. prior to dischargethe patient was seen by surgery and anesthesia for her preoperativeworkup. there were no complications.disposition: discharge medications: aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , nph26 units q.a.m. and 20 units q.p.m. , lopressor 100mg p.o. b.i.d. , nitroglycerin 0.4 mg sublingual q5m times three ,prilosec 20 mg p.o. q.d. , percocet 1 to 2 tablets p.o. q4h p.r.n.pain , zocor 20 mg p.o. qhs , famciclovir 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. times 7days. followup: the patient will follow-up with dr. alexis iannottion 5/21/97 and will follow-up with cardiac surgery.dictated by: rigoberto saab , m.d. bk37attending: jame s. yuzn , m.d. vs12il511/4455batch: 3576 index no. lqluef95cv d: 10/12/97t: 10/12/97[report_end]