931969879 | dlmc | 33197558 | | 844866 | 8/24/1996 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 6/14/1996 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/2/1996principal diagnosis: unstable angina.history of present illness: toby glud is a68-year-old psychiatrist with ahistory of hypertension , recent positive exercise test severalweeks prior to admission who now presented with increasingfrequency of chest pain with exertion , as well as at rest. thepatient is admitted for cardiac catheterization.the patient states that he has been in good health all of his life ,with history of some hypertension and sinus tachycardia. he isfollowed by drs. freeman theron meley . a routine exercise stress test hadbeen reported as equivocal for coronary artery disease. records ofthis test are currently unavailable. since 1995 , the patient hasdone well without any anginal symptoms until february 1996 when hewas admitted to the mara bleyval medical center for rule outmyocardial infarction after experiencing recurrent palpitations andsudden feelings of hunger associated with chest pressure. at thattime , there were no ekg changes. his ck and troponin levels wereflat. no arrhythmias were noted during the brief hospitalization.he was discharged on a beta blocker , as well as a calcium channelblocker. in september 1996 , the patient underwent a repeat annualexercise stress test. this time , he was able to go only 4.4minutes , stopped with fatigue , shortness of breath , andpalpitations , noted to correlate with atrial premature beats. he alsodeveloped 4/10 chest pressure that was relieved with rest andnitroglycerin. his maximum heart rate was 127 , maximum bloodpressure 120/60. ekgs during exercise revealed 2 mm st depressionsin leads ii , iii , avf , and v4 , and 1 mm depressions in leads v3 ,v5 , and v6. these ekg changes persisted into 30 minutes ofrecovery.in the four weeks following this positive ett , the patient noted adrastic decrease in his exercise capacity and he developed onset ofsubsternal chest pain with exertion. this discomfort wasassociated with shortness of breath , no clear radiation. there wasnever any nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis , or palpitations associatedwith this chest pain. in the two weeks prior to admission , thepatient developed similar substernal chest pain at rest on severaloccasions. all of these were relieved with sublingualnitroglycerin.on the evening prior to admission , the patient developed substernalchest pain during a music concert. this occurred at rest andlasted approximately 10 minutes , relieved with one sublingualnitroglycerin. the next morning , the patient notified his primarycardiologist about the increased frequency of his chest pain , andhe was , therefore , admitted for cardiac catheterization.the patient on admission , was chest pain-free , denies palpitations ,and shortness of breath. his cardiac risk factors include his age ,sex , smoking history , positive family history , and elevatedcholesterol level. the patient denies orthopnea , paroxysmalnocturnal dyspnea , and ankle edema. he has no pleuritic chest painand no calf tenderness.past medical history: 1. hypertension. 2. "palpitations" ,question of premature atrial contractions.3. benign prostatic hypertrophy. 4. depression.allergies: the patient is allergic to horse serum which causes arash.admission medications: 1. sular 10 mg q.day. 2. zebeta 5 mgq.day. 3. zoloft 50 mg q.day. 4. entericcoated aspirin 325 mg q.day.family history: the patient's mother suffered a myocardialinfarction in her 70s , also history of strokes.the patient's father had a stroke and died of a cerebralhemorrhage.social history: the patient is married and lives with his wife incinnester boulevard he is currently stillpracticing as a psychiatrist. he has a 25 year smoking history , upto three packs per day. he quit five years ago. he denies alcoholuse.physical examination: the patient is a pleasant , well built ,white male lying in bed in noapparent distress. his temperature was 97.6 , pulse 56 , bloodpressure 110/64 , and respiratory rate 20. heent examination wasanicteric. oropharynx had no lesions. neck was supple with nolymphadenopathy. there were brisk carotid upstrokes , but with nobruits. his jvp was around 6 cm. his lungs were clear toauscultation. there was no costovertebral angle tenderness. hisheart examination had a regular rate and rhythm with a i/visystolic ejection murmur at the left upper sternal border. hisabdomen was soft , nontender , with normal bowel sounds. there wasno hepatosplenomegaly. femoral pulses were 2+ bilaterally withoutbruits. his extremities revealed no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema.he had 2+ dp and pt pulses. neurologic examination was nonfocal.his deep tendon reflexes were reduced to 0-1+ bilaterally.laboratory data: sodium was 144 , potassium 4.5 , chloride 104 ,bicarbonate 23 , bun 20 , and creatinine 1.4.liver function tests were all within normal limits. his cbcrevealed a white count of 6.10 , hematocrit 37.9 , and platelet count285 , 000. his pt was 11.8 , ptt 28.5. his fasting cholesterol , doneprior to admission , revealed a triglyceride of 121 , hdl 43 , and ldl131. urinalysis was negative. his ekg , on admission , revealed anormal sinus rhythm at 59 beats per minute and axis up to 68degrees with normal intervals. there was poor r wave progressionwith large r waves in v1 and v2 consistent with an old posteriorinfarct. there were occasional apvs with two different pt/t wavemorphologies. his chest x-ray , on admission , revealed no acutecardiopulmonary process , unchanged from prior film.assessment: the patient is a 68-year-old man with history ofhypertension , positive exercise tolerance test severalweeks prior to admission , now presenting with crescendo angina forcardiac catheterization.hospital course: the patient was taken to the catheterizationlaboratory for cardiac catheterization on thesecond day of admission. the catheterization revealed a 60%-70%proximal stenosis of his lad and a 40% proximal stenosis of hisrca. his left circumflex appeared normal. after an extensivediscussion with dr. provines , dr. latourrette , and dr. moe , the decisionwas made to stent the lad lesion. the lad was subsequentlysuccessfully stented with a 0% residual stenosis. following thesuccessful ptca , the patient was placed on heparin and ticlid for48 hours. during this period of time , the patient had one episodeof mild chest discomfort which was epigastric in nature , and wasrelieved with maalox. there were no associated ekg changes. atthe end of the 48 hours of heparin and ticlid , the patient wasdischarged home to complete a total of 28 days of ticlid. on theday of discharge , the patient was started on fluvastatin for hiselevated ldl level. he is to follow up with dr. blaszczyk for furtthermanagement.discharge condition: stable.discharge medications: sular 10 mg q.day , zebeta 5 mg q.day ,zoloft 50 mg q.day , enteric coated aspirin325 mg q.day , ticlid 250 mg b.i.d. times 28 days , fluvastatin 20 mgq.h.s. , sarna topical p.r.n. for pruritus.discharge instructions: the patient was instructed to follow upwith dr. amon and to get q. other weekblood draws for check of his white count for six weeks.follow-up: the patient was to follow up with dr. ketzler inthe week following his discharge.dictated by: ellsworth v. okey , m.d. rm6attending: anibal t. cherebin , m.d. qh4  on247/2049batch: 97477 index no. c5uoqueln d: 6/23/96t: 3/25/96cc: 1. guadalupe z. mccra , m.d. vi72. ramon makowsky , m.d.