record #123145977738472 | dmh | 18689855 | | 185127 | 10/4/1992 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 1/5/1992 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/19/1992principal diagnosis: 1. asthma exacerbation.secondary diagnoses: 2. coronary artery disease.3. chronic obstructive pulmonarydisease.4. sleep apnea.5. hypertension.6. obesity.7. tobacco history.history: a 61-year-old female with a long tobaccohistory of copd , and recently diagnosedsleep apnea is admitted with an asthma flare. in 1981 , she had advt which required ivc filter placement. in 1983 , she had anonq-wave mi and cath at that time showed an 80% proximal ladstenosis , 30% rca stenosis treated medically. in march of 1991 ,the patient had an exercise test in which she went four minutesin 28 seconds , stopped because of fatigue and there were nodiagnostic ekg changes. pft's at that time were reportedlynormal , although details are not available at this time.in august of 1991 , further evaluation of the patient's dyspneaincluded multiple normal ekg's , a low probable vq scan. she wastreated with steroids and inhalers ( bronchosol ) with good relief.in july 1991 , the patient had recurrent dyspnea on exertion. sheruled out for an mi at jeanes medical center . repeat cathshowed an lad stenosis of 40% , rca of 80% and an ejectionfraction of 73%. she was discharged on medical management.in february of 1991 , the patient was diagnosed with "asthma"/copdand had another rule out mi for dyspnea. at that time , she hadanother ett in which she went four minutes and 45 seconds ,stopped secondary to chest pain , however , the ekg wasnondiagnostic. thallium showed fixed anterior defects ( althoughthe effects overlying breast tissue cannot be ruled out ).bronchoscopy showed mild bronchitis and , since that time , she wasdischarged on a prednisone taper which had gradually been tapereddown to 11 mg a day.of note , the patient also has been diagnosed with sleep apnea forwhich she is on nasal cpap. she sleeps in a chair due toorthopnea and occasionally has paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.the most recent pulmonary function tests ( march 1992 ) showed anfev1 of 1.76 , an fvc of 2.5 , ratio of 70% , dlco of 28.3. atwenty-four holter was negative for arrhythmias. exercise testat that time , she went nine minutes and had no st changes.thallium images were again unremarkable.one week prior to admission , the patient developed symptoms ofupper respiratory infection including sneezing , rhinorrhea ,headache and had increased shortness of breath. steroids wereincreased as were nebulizers with symptomatic improvement. overthe five days prior to admission , the patient had increasingshortness of breath , wheezing worse at night. she denies fevers ,chills , sweats , nausea , vomiting , chest pain , abdominal pain ,cough , rash or joint pain.in the emergency room , the patient was in marked respiratorydistress for which she was given nebulizer and begun on iv solu-medrol. peak flow at that time was 180.past medical history , copd , coronary artery disease status postnonq-wave mi 1983. obesity. sleep apnea. allergic rhinitis.status post cholecystectomy. benign breast cyst resection.history of labyrinthitis. history of sjogren's disease with apositive anti dna antibody. history of dvt status post ivcfilter in 1983.allergies: sulfa has caused swollen mouth ,theophylline causes jitteriness.medications: albuterol nebulizers t.i.d.; kay-ciel8 meq q.d.; prednisone 11 mg q.d.;guanfacine 600 mg b.i.d.; verapamil 240 sr q.d.; lasix 40 mgb.i.d. ( q.d. if feels okay ). cromolyn nebs q. 6 hours ( rarelyuses ); nasobid inhaler b.i.d.; ranitidine q. h.s. habits:tobacco history , quit approximately two years ago , rare alcohol.physical examination: obese , pleasant female in mild shortnessof breath initially but responded tonebs and steroids. otopharynx was clear. there was no thrush.neck: supple. carotids 2+. cardiovascular: regular rate andrhythm , very distant. lungs: decreased breath sounds at bases ,scant wheezes , no crackles. abdomen: soft , nontender.extremities: obese , no marked edema , although difficult toassess secondary to obesity. skin: no visible lesion.neurological: grossly within normal limits.laboratory data: potassium 3.6 , bun 16 , creatinine 0.9 ,white count 15.1 , urinalysis negative.chest x-ray , no significant disease except for a question of mildchf changes.hospital course: the patient was treated with ivsteroids , nebulizers , oxygen , and didquite well. the trigger for her asthma remains illusive. sheunderwent an esophageal acid study to rule out subclinicalaspiration ( results pending at the time of discharge ). there wasno infectious component to her exacerbation detected , althoughpreceding viral illness cannot be excluded. the patient wastreated with subcutaneous heparin for dvt risks.on hospital day number four , the patient was converted toprednisone without complications. she had no episodes of chestpain and there was no evidence for ischemic etiology.at the time of discharge , the patient's peak flows were greaterthan 500 and her lung exam had cleared remarkably. she istransferred to foflotroy hospital for respiratoryrehabilitation on the following medications: aspirin one tabletp.o. q.d.; atrovent puffers two puffs q. 4 hours; beconase nasalinhaler two puffs q. 6 hours; heparin 10 , 000 units subcutaneousb.i.d.; pepcid 20 mg q. h.s.; prednisone 40 mg p.o. q. d. ( taperas tolerated ); albuterol nebulized treatments q. 4 hours asneeded; isordil 10 mg p.o. t.i.d.; verapamil sr 240 mg p.o. q.d.;lasix 40 mg p.o. q. a.m. p.r.n.; beclovent neb six puffs p.o.q.i.d.addendum:regarding the patient's esophagram results , the patient had a48-hour esophageal ph monitor which showed that the patient hasreflux episodes and parameters which are within normal limits;however , 4/7 cough episodes are correlated with the patient'scough and asthma flares are possibly related to her refluxsymptoms; however , the study was not completely diagnostic.benefit from anti-reflux medications such as reglan on adiagnostic and therapeutic trial , we should also consider furthergastroesophageal reflux studies such as manometry as anoutpatient.dictated by: trey boghosian , m.d. haack , emil d.wr356/0734 /rafael eduardo averett , m.d. qq8 d: 11/25/28t: 6/13/92batch: q072 report: zt434k3 t:[report_end]