record #138153180715134 | nmc | 16601782 | | 0269764 | 2/13/2004 12:00:00 am | pneumonia | signed | dis | admission date: 2/13/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/16/2005attending: palmer jeangilles mdservice:general medical service arb gard saadmission diagnosis:pneumonia.discharge diagnosis:pneumonia associated with picc line bacteremia.chief complaint:diaphoresis and shortness of breath.history of present illness:mr. garrigan is a 68-year-old gentleman with known coronary arterydisease status post 2-vessel coronary artery bypass grafting in6/13 , hypertension , atrial fibrillation status postcardioversion on coumadin , hypercholesterolemia , aortic stenosis ,status post aortic valve replacement with bioprosthetic valve ,diabetes mellitus , cervical stenosis , as well as a recentadmission to the land as rohay hospital for bilateralbrachial plexopathy of unknown etiology , who is receiving threeweeks of intravenous cefotaxime as empiric lyme treatment as apossible cause for his plexopathy , who presents with shortness ofbreath. while at the sieu iebri general hospital , thepatient developed shortness of breath one-and-a-half day prior toadmission. this was associated with significant diaphoresis andfevers intermittently for four days prior to admission. of note ,the patient denied any dysuria , cough , sinus pain , diarrhea , earpain , pleuritic chest pain , calf pain , paroxysmal nocturnaldyspnea , or orthopnea. the patient was taken to the emergencydepartment where a chest x-ray demonstrated a new right upperlobe pneumonia. the patient was treated with levofloxacin in theemergency department and admitted to the inpatient medicalservice.past medical history:1. coronary artery disease status post 2-vessel coronary arterybypass grafting in 4/102. hypertension.3. atrial fibrillation status post cardioversion on coumadin.4. hypercholesterolemia.5. aortic stenosis , status post aortic valve replacement( bioprosthesis ).6. diabetes mellitus.7. bilateral brachial plexopathy of unknown etiology , butattributed to lyme disease. the patient was being treated fourwith three weeks of iv cefotaxime. this brachial plexopathy hadimproved to the point where the patient was able to lift his armsand do his own adls. when he first presented with thiscondition , the patient had a near complete paralysis of his motorfunction in his upper extremities without loss of his sensoryfunction , per report.8. cervical stenosis and foraminal stenosis , as well ascongestive heart failure with an ejection fraction of 45%.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications: metformin 1000 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 500 mg p.o.q.p.m. , simvastatin 5 mg p.o. q. monday , wednesday , and friday ,neurontin 300 mg b.i.d. , which had been tapered down to 300 mgq.d. , and then plan for discontinuation , nexium 20 mg p.o.b.i.d. , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , aspirin 81 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d. , atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.d. , senna ,coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.d. , methadone 5 mg p.o. p.r.n. pain , andregular insulin sliding scale , and cefotaxime 2 g iv injectionst.i.d. ( final dose on the day of admission ).social history: resident at the mi ville for the past threeweeks. he is married. tobacco history , one-and-a-half packs perday , smoking x40 years but has quit. no alcohol use. over thepast seven years.family history: noncontributory.physical examination: upon admission , afebrile , pulse 80s , bloodpressure 126/72 , and oxygen saturation 96% on 2 liters. generalappearance: not acutely in distress , talking in full sentences ,ruddy appearing in the face , but stable per the patient. headand neck exam revealed pupils that were equally round andreactive to light. extraocular movements were intact. no sinustenderness. jvp was around 9 cm , no lymphadenopathy.cardiovascular: regular rate and rhythm. normal s1 and s2 , 2/6systolic ejection murmur at the upper sternal border. chestexam: bibasilar crackles and right-sided bronchial breath soundsand question focal wheeze. abdomen: soft , nontender , andnondistended. bowel sounds are present. extremities: no edema.warm and well perfused.laboratory data:admission laboratory values included a chem-7 within normallimits with a creatinine of 0.8 and glucose of 181. white bloodcell count of 9.8 , hematocrit of 33.6 , and platelets of 222 witha differential of 88% neutrophils. liver function tests aresignificant ast of 45 , alt of 65 , alkaline phosphatase 153 , andtotal bilirubin 0.5 , yet these liver function tests quicklycorrected the next morning of an ast of 21 , alt of 47 , alkalinephosphatase 123 , total bilirubin 0.5 , ck of 31 , ck-mb of 1.7 ,troponin of less than assay , and amylase of 23. chest x-rayshowing a right upper lobe wedge-shaped infiltrate , mildcardiomegaly , and mild pulmonary edema. electrocardiogram wasconsistent with an old ekg from 2004 , normal sinus rhythm at 82 ,now with slightly increased widening of the qrs complex in a leftbundle-branch block pattern , hyperacute t waves in v4 and v3.impression:a 68-year-old gentleman with multiple medical problems andbilateral brachial plexopathy of unclear etiology , now improving ,who presents with new right upper lobe infiltrate in the presenceof having an indwelling picc line in place for iv antibioticsover the past three weeks as well as a bioprosthetic valve.hospital course by system:1. infectious disease: the patient was admitted for likelyhospital-acquired pneumonia given his long hospitalization andrehabilitation stays recently. the patient was pancultured. thepicc line was discontinued and the tip was cultured. the patientwas covered broadly initially with vancomycin , as well asceftazidime. on further review of the culture data during thehospital course , the patient began to grow coagulase-negativestaphylococcus that was resistant to methicillin from both thepicc line culture , as well his blood cultures from 10/13/05. hischest ct was significant for an extensive area of ground glassopacity in the right upper lobe with smaller areas in otherlobes. bilateral mediastinal adenopathy was noted. infectionwas thought to be the most likely diagnosis in view of therapidity of the chest film changes. other possibilities includedbronchoalveolar cell carcinoma or lymphoma per the radiologicread , but was not consistent with the clinical presentation. perinfectious disease consultation , the pneumonia could beattributed to the mrse picc line bacteremia with secondaryseating. a subsequent transthoracic echocardiogram revealed anejection fraction of 55%-60% , but with abnormal paradoxicalmotion consistent with his postoperative status after aorticvalve replacement. the entire anterior wall was hypokinetic.the right ventricular systolic function appeared to be normal.the left atrial size was mildly dilated at 4.6 cm. the aorticvalve appeared to be normal functioning with trace aorticregurgitation. other valvular function appeared to be withinnormal limits with exception of moderate-to-severe tricuspidregurgitation and peak systolic pulmonary artery pressures of 31mmhg plus right atrial pressure. no pericardial effusion wasseen and no evidence of endocarditis was observed. on follow upchest x-rays throughout the hospital course , the patient'sinfiltrate resolved with a chest x-ray on 9/16/05 showing clearlungs and only prior cardiac surgery evident without worsening orcontinued presence of the right upper lobe infiltrate. a newpicc line was placed per infectious disease servicerecommendations for continued intravenous treatment withvancomycin for 7 to 10 days starting 48 hours after the lastblood culture was negative. therefore , the last dose of his ivantibiotics should be given on 2/13/05. to cover othergram-negative sources for his pneumonia , the infectious diseaseservice also suggested continuing and ceftazidime treatment aswell. therefore , the patient will be discharged on bothintravenous vancomycin as well as intravenous ceftazidimetreatment. because of the patient's inability to pay for thevisiting nurses to administer iv antibiotics at home , the patientwill be discharged to a rehabilitation center.2. cardiovascular:ischemia: given the patient's history of diabetes and shortnessof breath , the patient was ruled out for myocardial infarctionwith three negative cardiac enzymes. the patient was continuedon his anti-ischemic regimen including aspirin , statin , as wellas beta blockade. in the future , the patient should betransitioned back to once a day dosing of beta blockade as anoutpatient.pump: the patient initially presented in mild volume overload.the patient was maintained on his home dosing of lasix with goodvolume response. by the end of his hospitalization , the patientwas not requiring any oxygen supplementally and was dischargedwith euvolemia.rhythm: the patient was admitted initially in normal sinusrhythm status post cardioversion for atrial fibrillation. heremained on coumadin. he was placed on telemetry given someincreased widened intervals of his qrs complexes. early in thecourse of his hospitalization , the patient converted back toatrial fibrillation. his rate was controlled with beta blockade.the sternta center and was asked to comment. the patientwas maintained on both beta blockade as well as digoxin. he alsocontinued on anticoagulation with coumadin. interestingly , thecardiovascular service suggested that possibly some ground-glassopacities on the patient's chest ct could be attributed toamiodarone lung toxicity. because of this finding , it wasrecommended that the patient stop the amiodarone , which wasindeed discontinued through this hospitalization. he shouldfollow up with his cardiovascular group as an outpatient todetermine further course of treatment for his atrialfibrillation.anticoagulation: the patient will continue to be treated withcoumadin for goal inr between 2 to 3. by the end of thishospitalization , the patient's inr was 1.7 on a dose of coumadin7 mg p.o. q.h.s. that dose was increased to 7.5 mg p.o. q.h.s.the patient should have his inr checked within two days afterdischarge and have his coumadin dose changed appropriately.3. neurologic: the patient was admitted on a previoushospitalization with a history of bilateral brachioplexopathy.it had been attributed to possible line infection given a historyof a tick bite. he was treated empirically with three weeks ofiv cefotaxime with moderate improvement of motor function whileat rehabilitation. interestingly , upon further review of lymedisease workup , the patient apparently had a negative serologyfor treponema pallidum igg. confirmatory tests , which included alyme disease titer was still marked as pending in our computersystem at the ardbroo worth-son bu elstownw. raph hospitals . despite multipleattempts to try to contact the laboratory , which runs thisparticular tests , we were unable to confirm or deny the presenceof past lyme infection. therefore , at this time , we can onlystate that his bilateral brachioplexopathy was secondary to anunknown and unclear etiology. fortunately , with physical therapyand with time and possibly with infusion of the iv cefotaxime ,the patient's motor function has improved. at the time of thisdischarge , the patient's overall upper extremity motor strengthwas 4+/5 symmetrically. the patient should follow up veryclosely with his primary care physician as well as hisneurologist in one month. at that time , his neurologist shouldconfirm or negate the possibility that the patient's neurologicsymptoms may have been caused by lyme disease. the patientshould continue physical therapy at rehabilitation and as anoutpatient. in addition , the patient should continue hisneurontin taper. he currently is on 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. andshould be tapered to nothing by the end of his hospitalizationand rehabilitation. he will continue on methadone for hischronic pain. in addition , he suffers from significant anxiety.he will be discharged on p.r.n. ativan at low-dose , as higherdoses tend to make him sleepier and oversedated.4. endocrine: the patient was admitted with diabetes mellitus.he was initially admitted with taking metformin 1000 mg p.o.q.a.m. and 500 mg p.o. q.h.s. because of his hospitalization andmultiple studies , this was discontinued transiently and he wasplaced on a regular insulin sliding scale. at the end of thishospitalization , he will be placed back on those home doses ofmetformin. in addition , he will continue his ace inhibitor forhis diabetes , as well as for his significant cardiac disease.5. pulmonary: much of his pulmonary process can be attributedto his pneumonia as treated in the statements above. inaddition , he will continue on p.r.n. atrovent and albuterolnebulizer treatment for possible wheezing during hishospitalization. in addition , it is hoped that the ativan p.r.n.dosing also contribute to less subjective shortness of breathsecondary to alleviation of his anxiety.6. gastrointestinal: the patient , periodically , throughout hishospitalization complained of mild epigastric pain. a kub showedno perforation and no obvious obstruction , but with many loops ofbowel with stool. he was placed on a bowel regimen includingcolace , senna , and dulcolax p.r.n. by the end of thishospitalization , he appeared to be less symptomatic. inaddition , he will continue his trial of simethicone p.r.n. forabdominal gas and bloating. he will continue on his proton pumpinhibitor , nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d.code status:he remains full code throughout his hospitalization.disposition:the patient will be discharged to rehabilitation where he willcontinue iv antibiotic support for until 2/13/05. he shouldalso continue physical therapy for his upper extremity motordysfunction. he should follow up with his primary care physicianas well as his neurologist as stated in his discharge summary.discharge medications:include tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. headache , aspirin 325 mgp.o. q.d. , albuterol nebulizer treatment 2.5 mg nebulizertreatment q.4h. p.r.n. shortness of breath or wheeze , dulcolax 5mg p.o. q.d. p.r.n. constipation , ceftazidime 1000 mg iv q.8h. ,to continue until 10/24/05 , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.d. , colace100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d. , robitussin q.4h.p.r.n. cough , regular insulin sliding scale q.a.c. and q.h.s. ,lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q.d. , ativan 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg p.o. q.8h.p.r.n. insomnia or anxiety , hold if respiration rate is less than8 or somnolent , methadone 5 mg p.o. q.8h. p.r.n. pain; hold ifoversedated or respiration rate less than 8 , lopressor 50 mg p.o.t.i.d.; hold if heart rate is less than 55 or systolic bloodpressure less than 100 , senna two tabs p.o. b.i.d.; hold forloose stools , simethicone 80 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. gas bloatingor abdominal discomfort , trazodone 25 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n.insomnia , vancomycin 1000 mg iv q.12h.; last doses on 10/24/05 ,coumadin 7.5 mg p.o. q.p.m.; please draw inr within the next oneto two days and dose the coumadin appropriately for inr goal 2 to3 , simvastatin 5 mg p.o. q.o.d. , neurontin 100 mg p.o. t.i.d.;please continue to wean until completely off , nexium 40 mg p.o.q.d. , atrovent nebulizer treatment 0.5 mg nebulizer treatmentq.6h. hour p.r.n. shortness of breath or wheeze , and metformin1000 mg q.a.m. and 500 mg q.p.m.escription document: 3-3310411 emssten teldictated by: bedard , rudyattending: chavis , domingodictation id 8942343d: 6/13/05t: 6/13/05[report_end]