686148804 | eh | 10870937 | | 652319 | 10/19/1998 12:00:00 am | coronary artery disease | signed | dis | admission date: 8/13/1998 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/7/1998discharge diagnosis: coronary artery disease.history of present illness: mr. brunckhorst is a 70 year old man whorecently had been experiencing anincrease in frequency of chest pain with exertion. as a result ofhis recent increase in symptoms , he was administered an exercisetolerance test which was predictive of ischemia and revealed anejection fraction of approximately 50%. as a result of hispositive exercise tolerance test , he was referred for cardiaccatheterization on may , 1998 which revealed three vesselcoronary artery disease. at this time , he was referred to thecardiac surgery service for revascularization.past medical/surgical history: significant for transitional cellcarcinoma of the bladder , thepatient was status post radical cystectomy in 1992 with an ilealloop bypass , no chemotherapy or radiation therapy was used in thetreatment of this cancer , also significant history of asthmatreated at home with the use of inhalers , and patient also reporteda history of gallstones which were asymptomatic.current medications: cardizem 180 mg once a day , 81 mg of aspirina day , and lipitor 10 mg p.o. once a day.the patient used beclovent metered dose inhaler at three puffs oncea day at home to control his asthma symptoms.social history: patient reported a remote history of tobacco usewith no tobacco use for the last thirty years.likewise , he reported no current use of alcohol.allergies: patient reported no known drug allergies.physical examination: at the time of admission , temperature was98.4 degrees fahrenheit , heart rate of 80beats per minute and regular , blood pressure of 120/80 , and anoxygen saturation of 94% on room air. heent: essentially withinnormal limits revealing no audible bruits over his carotidarteries , no jugular venous distention , no lymphadenopathy , and hisoropharynx was benign with reasonably good dentition. cardiac:examination revealed the heart to be in a regular rate and rhythmat 80 beats per minute with no audible murmur , gallop , or rub.chest: examination revealed the lungs to be clear to auscultationin bilateral lung fields. abdomen: examination was benign withthe exception of the ileal loop mentioned above. the abdomen wasotherwise nontender and nondistended without any focal findings.extremities: examination revealed no cyanosis , clubbing , or edema ,2+ dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally , and no evidence of varicoseveins. rectal: examination revealed normal tone and guaiacnegative stool.laboratory examination: values at the time of admission included abun of 17 , a creatinine of 1.1 , sodium of140 , potassium of 4.3 , white blood cell count of 9 , platelet countof 245 , 000 , and a hematocrit of 49.1.hospital course: patient was taken to the operating room on january , 1998 where he underwent coronary artery bypassgrafting times four including left internal mammary artery to theleft anterior descending coronary artery and saphenous vein graftsto the posterior descending coronary artery , the obtuse marginal ,and the plv. for further details of this operation , please referto the dictated operative note. patient progressed well in hispostoperative course. he was extubated on postoperative day numberone and transferred from the intensive care unit to the stepdownunit on postoperative day number two. on postoperative day numberthree , the patient had a his chest tubes and temporary cardiacpacing wires discontinued and began working on increasing hisambulation and mobility. patient continued to progress well on thestepdown unit and was now in good condition for discharge to homewith visiting nurse services on postoperative day number six. theonly complication of note during his postoperative course waspositive urine culture for which the patient was started onlevofloxacin to be continued for a total course of seven days.disposition: the patient is in good condition for discharge tohome on postoperative day number six.discharge medications: beclovent three puffs inhaled once a day ,aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , niferex 150 mgp.o. b.i.d. , diltiazem 30 mg p.o. t.i.d. , and levofloxacin 500 mgp.o. q.d. times four days.follow-up: he has been instructed to make follow-up appointmentswith his cardiologist for one week following dischargeand to return to see his cardiac surgeon , dr. bennie bement , sixweeks following discharge from the hospital.dictated by: myles ramsour , p.a.attending: wade d. wert , m.d. jm0ef385/0880batch: 01773 index no. tiujtx4r9y d: 10/23/98t: 5/15/98