record #14370941581261 | sh | 43568304 | | 3017564 | 8/2/2007 12:00:00 am | hepatic encephalopathy | signed | dis | admission date: 3/7/2007 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/28/2007attending: daft , pablo m.d.service:gibrief admission history of present illness:mr. chirico is a 50-year-old male with a history of hep-c and nashcirrhosis who was transferred from the outside hospital withpresumed hepatic encephalopathy after being found unresponsive inhis apartment. of note , the patient has been in the ed two daysprior to admission on 1/6/2007 for abdominal pain anddistention , at which time labs were within normal limits ,including no white count , lfts , but he did have ammonia of 81.plan was for paracentesis , but the patient refused and he leftama before follow up with his gi doctor could be arranged. hisfamily was unable to contact him on the evening on 10/12/2007 . afriend was sent and checked him out in the following morning on11/28/2006 and the patient was found alone in his apartment andunresponsive. he was taken to the charl lubspi hospital by ems on 8/7/2007 , and the patient was tachycardic andfebrile to 100.2 , and only able to open eyes to commands ,otherwise noncommunicative per report. a diagnostic andtherapeutic paracentesis of 4 liters was performed , which wasnegative for spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. his systolicblood pressure dropped to the 80's post-paracentesis and he hadelevated cardiac enzymes with troponin of 0.49. the patient'scourse at the outside hospital was also complicated by uti ,status post two days or ciprofloxacin and an acute renal failurein the setting of diuresis ( creatinine rising from 0.8 and 1.5 ).given the patient's extensive history of cardiac/gi treatment atthe systems/leaj memorial hospital , he was transferred to the nonwelle geshall hospital of on 3/7/2007 .past medical history:1. nonalcoholic steatohepatitis: undergoing liver transplantworkup. hav , hcv reactive. hbv negative. smooth muscleantibody positive. large volume ascites with multipleparacenteses from 1/25 through 0/4 .  liver biopsied on6/14 with portal mononuclear inflammation ,micro/macrovesicular steatosis , focal sinusoidal fibrosis.2. cad , status post stent: cardiac cath done 8/12/2006revealed proximal lad with ostial 90% disease , 50% ??____?? limatouchdown , 90% ostial left circumflex , totally occluded rca ,patent lima to lad and patent svg to pda and radial to diagonal ,but radial graft to om was totally occluded. he had a bare-metalstent placed to left circumflex lesion.3. status post cabg in 3/0 with lima to lad , svg to pda ,renal graft to om and diagonal. asymptomatic since cabg , but inworkup for liver transplant , the patient was found to haveelevated troponin and taken to cath as above.4. hypertension.5. diabetes , mild.6. asthma.7. morbid obesity.8. thrombocytopenia.9. acute renal failure in the setting of large volume taps.home medications:albuterol two puff q.i.d. , nexium 40 mg p.o. daily , advair 500/50inhaler one puff b.i.d. , aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , plavix 75 mgp.o. daily , lasix 20 mg p.o. daily ( decreased from 40 , prior from80 in the last month ) , metformin 850 mg p.o. t.i.d. , avandia 8 mgp.o. daily , and lactulose 30 ml p.o. daily.medications on transfer from gsvh :albuterol 90 mcg two puff q.6 h. , fluticasone/salmeterol one puffb.i.d. , aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , plavix 75 mg p.o. daily ,rifaximin 400 mg p.o. t.i.d. , nadolol 400 mg p.o. daily ,lactulose 30 ml p.o. daily , atorvastatin 40 mg p.o. daily , andpantoprazole 40 mg p.o. daily.allergies:1. iv contrast: urticaria.2. metoprolol: bronchospasm.physical examination and studies on admission:temperature 96.5 , heart rate 54-63 , blood pressure 106/54 ,respiratory rate 20 , and sao2 of 96%. general: anobese-appearing male in no apparent distress. heent:normocephalic and atraumatic , perrl , no scleral icterus , jvpequals 8 cm. no cervical lad. lungs are clear to auscultationbilaterally. no crackles , wheezes or rhonchi. cardiovascular:distant heart sounds , regular rate and rhythm , normal s1 and s2 ,no murmurs , rubs or gallops. abdomen: very protuberant anddistended , bruising throughout , fluid wave present , nontender ,normal bowel sounds in all four quadrants , no hsm or massespalpated. extremities: no cyanosis or clubbing , 2+ pittingedema to the knees , anasarca , 2+ radial pulses bilaterally.derm: prominent abdominal wall varices , which are common , nocaput , prominent bruising , no palmar erythema or spider angiomas.neuro: alert and oriented to person , place and time. cranialnerves ii through xii are intact. motor strength and sensationare grossly intact. positive asterixis.notable studies and procedures:diagnostic/therapeutic paracenteses x4 using abdominal ultrasoundto mark site ( volumes removed: 6 liters , 6 liters , 1.2 liters ,and 6 liters.hospital course by problem:1. hepatic encephalopathy: on transfer , mr. davern is alert andoriented , but still very confused with limited verbalcommunication. baseline ammonia on 8/24/2007 was 66. he wascontinued on lactulose and rifaximin , which were titrated to agoal to 3-4 bowel movements per day. during his hospitalization ,the patient was noncompliant with lactulose regimen due toconfusion and had two episodes of decreased responsiveness. during theseepisodes , there were no ekg or abg changes suspicious for ischemia orhypercapnia or hypoxia. given his agitation , the patient was placed onrestraints after whichhis mental status improved , inflicting a possible voluntary andmetabolic component is decompensation. he was able to contractwith healthcare team as his mental status improved and continuedto be compliant with his regimen. at discharge , he continues tobe alert and oriented , appropriately interactive , and anammonia of 16. plans were to follow up with dr. chhuon forcontinued evaluation of his possible liver transplant andmanagement of his hepatic encephalopathy. he should continue onhis lactulose regimen and rifaximin.2. ascites: mr. angeles 's intake weight was 225 pounds. heunderwent diagnostic therapeutic paracenteses x4. the first twoand fourth procedures removed 6 liters while the third procedureremoved 1.2 liters. before and after each tap , the patient wasinfused with iv albumin at 8 g/liter of ascites fluid removed.analysis of ascites fluid showed a saag of 1.4 , 2.7 , 3 , and 2.8respectively , which is consistent with portal hypertension. theascites fluid was also negative for spontaneous bacterialperitonitis. following each procedure , mr. records remainedhemodynamically stable with blood pressures of 80-90/40-50. hisblood pressure and weights remained stable followingparacentesis , reflecting limited reaccumulation fluid.discharge weight is 299.9 pounds. he should continue ondiuretics to maintain his ascites at a reasonable level includinglasix 80 mg p.o. daily and aldactone 200 mg p.o. b.i.d.3. renal insufficiency: lasix and aldactone were initiallystarted on mr. selim 's stay at the kvgh , but they werediscontinued after increasing in serum creatinine from baselineof 0.8 to 1.4 at the time of transfer. the patient's renalinsufficiency was likely secondary to hypotension with consequentrenal hypoperfusion. renal ultrasound at the outside hospitalwas negative. following transfer , mr. dayhoff was given empirichydration challenge with iv normal saline and albumin. he provedresponsive to this treatment with creatinine dropping from 1.4to 1.1. he was restarted on lasix 20 mg p.o. and aldactone 50 mgp.o. , and gradually titrated up to a discharge dose of lasix 80mg p.o. daily and aldactone 200 mg p.o. daily. his serumcreatinine has remained stable at 0.7 to 0.9. he will follow upwith dr. averbeck .4. hypotension: mr. boger had been hypotensive at the outsidehospital following paracentesis with normal saline placement.his regimen of lisinopril and nifedipine were consequently heldand discontinued. given his systolic blood pressures of 80's to90's , nadolol was also discontinued at the time of transfer.throughout his current hospitalization , mr. veroeven 's bloodpressures have remained stable in the 80-90/40-50.5. troponin leak: mr. swogger 's troponin leak at the outsidehospital is likely due to hypovolemic hypoperfusion. he wascontinued on aspirin , plavix , and zocor at the outside hospitalas he has status post stents and cabg. at the time of transfer ,his troponin had decreased from 0.49 to 0.15. he has maintainedon aspirin , plavix , and zocor , remained stable and asymptomaticthroughout the stay. a repeat troponin performed on 8/24/2007was less than 0.1 ( less than assay ).6. uti: mr. couvertier had positive urinalysis at the outsidehospital. he was treated with 3-day course of cipro. aurinalysis performed during this admission was negative.7. guaiac-positive stool: likely secondary to straining ,esophageal , and anorectal varices. the patient's hematocrit hadbeen stable at 35 to 43. at discharge , recommended workup in egdas an outpatient with dr. graniela .8. contact dermatitis: on hospital day #9 , the patientdeveloped a contact dermatitis on inner aspect of his thighs ,thought to be secondary to his urinary and fecal incontinence.he was treated with topical hydrocortisone and miconazole. healso developed an infected skin tag on his back , which wastreated with topical bacitracin. these should be continued to betreated at rehab and followed up by his pcp.9. diabetes mellitus: throughout his hospitalization , mr.lynne blood glucose levels were well controlled withfingerstick showing blood sugars to 100 to 190. the patient'smetformin and avandia were held and he was started on insulinsliding scale , but required minimal coverage. at discharge fromrehab , he should be restarted on his p.o. regimen of avandia andmetformin. he will follow up with his pcp , dr. orizetti .10. heme: on admission , inr was 1.7 , likely due to decreasedsynthetic function of his liver. he was given a 3-day course ofvitamin k with a good response. at the time of discharge , the patient'sinr was 1.6.11. code status: full code.12. disposition: to rehab.discharge medications:aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , albuterol inhaler two puffs b.i.d.p.r.n. wheezing , bacitracin topical b.i.d. applied to affectedarea , plavix 75 mg p.o. daily , colace 100 mg b.i.d. , nexium 40 mgp.o. daily , advair diskus 250/50 two puffs inhaler b.i.d. , lasix80 mg p.o. daily , heparin 5000 units subq q.8 h. , hydrocortisone1% cream topical b.i.d. , applied to affected areas , insulinaspart sliding scale , lactulose 45 ml p.o. t.i.d. , miconazolenitrate 2% powder topical , applied to affected areas b.i.d. ,rifaximin 400 mg p.o. t.i.d. , simvastatin 40 mg p.o. at bedtime ,aldactone 200 mg p.o. daily , and multivitamin one tablet p.o.daily.follow-up plan:1. please take all the medications as directed. continue towork with physical therapy. follow up with your appointmentswith dr. janda and dr. woolhouse . please notify your doctorsif you become increasingly confused , experiencing chest pain ,lose consciousness , rapid weight gain or any other concerningsymptoms.2. dr. belson , gi: at follow-up appointment , please assess thepatient for worsening ascites , medication compliance , and renalinsufficiency. please titrate diuretics and lactulose. consideroutpatient egd to assess your esophageal varices.3. dr. stoehr : at follow-up appointment , please assesspatient's contact dermatitis on his lower extremities , andinfected skin tag on his back. please assess the patient's bloodglucose levels. continue to monitor the patient's renal functionand blood pressure.4. rehab: physical therapy to work with the patient. ensuremedication compliance. monitor for acute changes in mentalstatus and blood pressure.prior to discharge , transition the patient back to oral diabeticregimen of avandia 8 mg p.o. daily and metformin 850 mg t.i.d.cc:dr. cockmandr. newstedescription document: 5-7768704 emssten teldictated by: sabiston , chiattending: yagi , earnestdictation id 5781898d: 6/24/07t: 6/24/07[report_end]