record #965152571742072 | th | 97450845 | | 776851 | 9/8/2002 12:00:00 am | small bowel obstruction | signed | dis | admission date: 4/30/2002 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/26/2002disposition: rehab facility as a vented patient.past medical history: the patient is a 77-year-old female withmultiple comorbidity noted to have suddenonset of diffuse abdominal pain 4 days prior to presentation. shereported the pain as constant and radiated to the back and thelegs. she had nausea and vomiting on the day of presentation aftereating her lunch. she did notice also some constipation and shehad a small bowel movement on the day of presentation.past medical history: atrial fibrillation. hypertension.noninsulin dependent diabetes. history ofpneumonia. history of sigmoid diverticulitis , status postcolectomy , ventral hernia , status post repair. congestive heartfailure. pacemaker placement on august , 2002 for sick sinussyndrome. rectal jejunum avm status post gi bleed. status postcva. history of ascites.medications: lasix 60 mg p.o. b.i.d. , atenolol 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,glucotrol 5 mg b.i.d. , protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d. ,zestril 5 mg p.o. q.d. , coumadin for her atrial fibrillation ,tylenol #3 for pain and iron supplements.physical examination: she was afebrile with temperature of 95.8.her heart rate was 93 in atrialfibrillation. her blood pressure was 124/77. she was satting 100%on room air. she had an irregularly irregular rhythm. lungs clearto auscultation. her abdomen was distended with shifting dullness.she had diffuse tenderness. she has guaiac positive stools. shehad no guarding or rebound.laboratory: her sodium is 140 , her potassium is 3.7 , hercreatinine was 1.1 , her lfts were all within normalrange with the exception of a slightly elevated alkalinephosphatase at 238. her total bilirubin was 1.4 , her lipase was25 , amylase was 57 , white count was 5.7 , hematocrit was 30.3 , coagswere notable for an inr of 2.1. her ua was negative with only twowhite cells sediment.radiology: her kub showed air fluid level small bowel and dilatedproximal small bowel. chest film showed a pacerplacement with cardiomegaly and atelectasis at the bilateral basis.abdomen ct showed a high grade small bowel obstruction withisolated cluster of small bowel with a closed loop without signs ofmesenteric ischemia. she also had a small ventral hernia. thepatient was given 6 units of ffp and taken to the operating roomfor an exploratory laparotomy.hospital course: the patient was taken to the operating after heranticoagulation was reversed. she had anexploratory laparotomy , lysis of adhesions , with an obstructed loop ofsmall bowel , with multiple adhesions around the closedloop obstruction. there was fecal spillage due to an enterotomy withina closed loop. all of the bowel was viable , and therefore no resection wasrequired. a moderately sized bezoar was removedfrom the small bowel in the area of the obstruction. the ebl was 400 cc. shewas given two units of ffp in the or. she had 1 , 500 cc of fluid aswell as two units of packed cells , about 1 liter os ascites wasdrained intraoperatively. her abdomen was closed with sepra mesh.she was intubated and transferred to the intensive care unit.postoperatively , she had fairly stable vital signs with a briefepisode of hypotension immediately postoperatively. she wassedated with fentanyl and versed in terms of her cardiac status.her atrial fibrillation was persistent and she was receivinglopressor 10 mg iv q.6h. respiratory , she was intubated and onpressor support of 15 with a blood gas that showed she wasoxygenating well. for gi , she had an ng tube in and she wasn.p.o. , had zantac. gu , she was continued fluid resuscitation.i.d. , she was started on ampicillin , levofloxacin , flagyl for athree day course.the patient had a prolonged post-operative course characterized by perisistentright heart failure , massive edema , several episodes of presumed line sepsis ,and failure to vean from ventillatory support. her mental status was also slowto recover. she maintained normal renal function throughout.her gi function recovered by pod #5 , and she was able to tolerate fullnutitional support via ng feedings. she underwent a tracheostomy on pod #15.she then proceeded to make a slow but steady recovery , with normalization ofher body fluid status , hepatic function , and mental function. at the time ofher discharge , her major issues were ventillatory support , with ongoingcompromise from chronic right heart failure.tubes , lines , and drains. she had a left brachial vein picc lineplaced on june . the line was measured at 45 cm. she had a foleyin place. she had a #7 portex trach tube. she also had an ng tubefor the duration of her hospital course and she is to continue tohave an ng tube while she is trach for tube feeds.discharge diagnosis: benzodiazepine overuse and dependence.atrial fibrillation. right heart failurewith secondary ascites. respiratory failure. serratia pneumonia.status post pacemaker placement for sick sinus syndrome. smallbowel obstruction. hyperbilirubinemia of unclear etiology.presumed acalculus cholecystitis . iron deficiency anemia.diabetes mellitus. coag negative staph bacteremia.discharge medications: atrovent and albuterol inhalers q.4h. ,natural tears 2 drops ou t.i.d. ,ceftazidime 1 gram iv t.i.d. , cholestyramine 4 grams/ng tubeb.i.d. , digoxin 0.25 mg/ng tube q.d. , epogen 40 , 000 units everyweek , iron sulfate 300 mg/ng tube t.i.d. , lasix 80 mg/ng tube ,b.i.d. , nph insulin 40 units subcu b.i.d. , lactulose 30 cc p.o./ngtube q.d. to be titrated to bowel movements , reglan 10 mg/ng tubeq.i.d. , aldactone 50 mg/ng tube b.i.d. , actigall 300 mg/ng tubet.i.d. , vancomycin 1 gram iv q.d. until june , 2002 , zyprexa 5mg/ng tube q a.m. and 10 mg/ng tube q.h.s. , also ativan 1 mg/ngtube p.r.n. anxiety.disposition: vented rehab.followup: followup is to be with dr. albarado in two weeks.discharge instructions: the patient is to remain on trach collarand vented p.r.n. she is also to continueher ng tube for tube feeds which are to be full strength 2-cal at50 cc an hour. she is to receive two scoops of promod.dictated by: buster morlock , m.d. wy53attending: bill mallonee , m.d. lw09vb097/031318batch: 3401 index no. sbtzr984ac d: 8/26/02t: 8/26/02[report_end]