record #151931918306143 | dgh | 12507329 | | 867015 | 10/30/1997 12:00:00 am | dilated cardiomyopathy | signed | dis | admission date: 8/24/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/9/1997principal diagnosis: cardiomyopathy.significant problem: non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus.history of present illness: the patient is a 57 year-old femalewith dilated cardiomyopathy who isadmitted for transplant evaluation. the patient initiallypresented in 1991 with substernal chest pain. at that time , it wasthought that she was having a myocardial infarction andstreptokinase was given; however details are not known. anechocardiogram at that time showed that her ejection fraction was35-40% with evidence an anteroseptal myocardial infarction. an ettthallium showed fixed anteroseptal and apical defects. cardiaccatheterization showed clean coronaries. the patient was referredto terself health where an exercise bicycle testshowed 6 minutes and 22 seconds of exercise. her peak heart ratewas 113 with a peak blood pressure of 140/60 and a peak vo2 of 11.6ml per kg per minute. the patient apparently did well until abouta year prior to admission when she noted a gradual decrease in herexercise tolerance. at an outside , she was hospitalized forcongestive heart failure symptoms. lately , the patient noticedthat she is unable to walk without becoming short of breath. inmarch of 1997 , the patient was able to walk one mile , but is nowunable to do so. the patient reports stopping several times whiletrying to climb one flight of stairs. she does report orthopnea aswell as paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , no light headedness orsyncope. she does have some palpitations as well as complaints oftwinges under left breast that occur randomly. she does notexperience any leg swelling. the patient saw dr. ontiveros onjuly , 1997 at which time an echocardiogram showed amassively dilated left ventricle with severely depressed systolicfunction and an ejection fraction of 15%. all walls were severelyhypokinetic. there was moderate left atrial enlargement andmoderate mitral regurgitation. there was normal right ventricularsize and function and no thrombus or pericardial effusion. thepatient underwent a bicycle test for which achieved 5 minutes and33 seconds with a maximal heart rate of 108 and a vo2 of 6.4 ml perkg per minute.past medical history: significant for 1 ) history of bronchitis.2 ) history of cardiomyopathy as above. 3 )non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. 4 ) status posthysterectomy at age 40. 5 ) status post cholecystectomy. 6 )status post appendectomy. 7 ) history of panic disorders. 8 )history of agoraphobia. 9 ) history of alcohol use.medications on admission: 1 ) coumadin 2.5 mg p.o. four times aweek and 5 mg p.o. three times a week.2 ) digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q. day. 3 ) enalapril 10 mg p.o. b.i.d.4 ) micronase 2.5 mg p.o. q. day. 5 ) multivitamins one tabletp.o. q. day. 6 ) lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. 7 ) xanax 0.5 mg p.o.q.i.d. p.r.n.allergies: the patient had no known drug allergies.family history: her parents both died with cardiac problems withcoronary artery disease ( father at age 42 , motherat age 62 ).social history: the patient lives alone with an apartment next toher son. she has worked as a house cleaner. shehas an 18 pack year history of cigarette smoking; she quit smoking30 years ago. she does have a history of heavy alcohol use. sheis recently divorced.physical examination: the patient is pleasant in no apparentdistress. the patient is afebrile with ablood pressure of 110/76 , heart rate 70 and a respiratory rate of20 with oxygen saturation of 97% on room air. her head examinationis remarkable for upper dentures. neck shows jugular venouspressure of 7 cm. carotid upstrokes are decreased and withoutbruits. there was no lymphadenopathy. lungs show occasionalbibasilar rales. heart shows regular rate and rhythm with distantheart sounds. there is a left ventricular heave and an s3 present.the abdomen is obese with bowel sounds present , soft , non-tenderwithout masses. the extremities show 1+ pitting edema bilaterally.pulses are intact bilaterally and the extremities are warm.neurological examination is non-focal with intact sensation andmotor examination. deep tendon reflexes are symmetric and 2+bilaterally with downgoing toes bilaterally.hospital course: the patient was admitted for a transplantationwork-up. she was catheterized on february ,1997. the catheterization showed no coronary artery disease noted.the atrium showed 16 mm of mercury mean pressure. the rightventricle showed 48/18 mm of mercury. the pa showed 48/34 mm ofmercury with a mean pressure of 39 mm of mercury. the pulmonarycapillary wedge pressure showed a mean of 30 mm of mercury.cardiac output and cardiac index showed 4.4 liters per minute and2.2 liters per minute per meter squared. the patient was brieflytransferred to the coronary care unit secondary to her elevatedpulmonary capillary wedge pressure and the presence of herswan-ganz catheter. the patient was diuresed with good response.she was transferred back to the general medicine team wherediuresis with intravenous lasix was continued. she toleratedenalapril and lasix well. by the end of her hospitalization , shewas taking 12.5 mg of enalapril b.i.d. and 40 mg of lasix p.o.b.i.d. she had been taken off her coumadin and had been placed onheparin during this hospitalization. the patient did experiencesome hematuria toward the end of her hospitalization which was feltto be secondary to foley trauma while she was in the coronary careunit.as part of the patient's transplant evaluation , she had a ppd withcontrols placed which showed that her ppd was negative and hercontrols were positive. the patient underwent a dental consult aswell as a psychiatric consult. the psychiatric evaluation wasfavorable for transplantation. the dental consult involved thepatient having panoramic x-rays. thyrology showed acytomegalovirus igg being positive , a cytomegalovirus igm beingequivocal , and epstein-barr virus anti-vca igg at 640 , anepstein-barr virus anti-vca igm being less than 10 and a mucalscreen being greater than or equal to 32 , a varicella zoster titerof 512 , a toxoplasma igg being positive , a toxoplasma igm beingnegative. abdominal ultrasound showed a mildly dilated common bileand pancreatic duct and showed that this patient was status postcholecystectomy.while the patient maybe a good transplant candidate , it was feltthat her weight was a negative factor in her potential fortransplant. the patient will be pursuing cardiac rehabilitationand weight loss if she is to be considered for transplant in thefuture. the patient was discharged.medications on discharge: 1 ) tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n.headache. 2 ) xanax 0.5 mg p.o. q.i.d.3 ) digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q. day. 4 ) enalapril 12.5 mg p.o.b.i.d. 5 ) lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. 6 ) micronase 1.25 mg p.o. q.day. 7 ) multivitamins one tablet p.o. q. day. 8 ) coumadin 2.5mg p.o. q. day on even days and 5 mg p.o. q. day on odd days.instructions: the patient was instructed that she should increaseher diuresis at home if she noticed an increase inher weight and was instructed to see a physician for continued forweight increases due to fluid accumulation.dictated by: winfred wiechmann , m.d. ip22attending: russell shupert , m.d. sc8rg559/6002batch: 10840 index no. nfgma3zoo d: 4/8/97t: 5/21/97[report_end]