330889770 | aluh | 57771309 | | 7357464 | 11/28/2005 12:00:00 am | ventricular fibrillation arrest | signed | dis | admission date: 2/10/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/17/2005attending: marvin , kermit m.d.chief complaint:status post cardiac arrest.history of present illness:mr. orlikowski is a 54-year-old man with a history of diabetes ,end-stage renal disease , cad , long qt interval , seizure disorder ,and mental status changes who presents following cardiac arrest.the patient presented to his regular hemodialysis appointment atirun adi hospital on 2/20/05 where during his dialysis , he noted that hebegan to feel strange. he had a questionable seizure earlier inthe day per history. during the dialysis , he became increasinglyconfused and was sent for further evaluation to the sidecoa medical center emergency room. at the cleavexo brock hospital ed , an ekg was done ,which showed tachycardia going in to torsade de pointes followedby ventricular fibrillation. he underwent a dc cardioversionshock at 200 joules and was converted to normal sinus rhythm.the patient was then intubated , as he was being coded.furthermore , there is report of the patient developing atonic-clonic seizure during the bagging phase of intubation.follow this , a repeat ekg was obtained and showed a qt intervalof 540. his baseline is apparently around 510 milliseconds. hiselectrolytes at that time were remarkable for potassium of 3.7 ,bicarbonate of 30 , and magnesium level of 1.6 , and phosphatelevel of 0.9. he did have a slightly elevated troponin level.he was then transferred to the centrah steadmot ain medical center forfurther workup and management. on arrival , the patient wasintubated , sedated , with an amiodarone drip.past medical history:1. diabetes mellitus , insulin dependent.2. end-stage renal disease with hemodialysis , on monday ,wednesday , and friday.3. cad , status post a non-st elevation mi in 6/29 .4. a long qt syndrome.5. seizure disorder.6. alcoholic cardiomyopathy complicated by gastritis.7. chronic pancreatitis.8. history of mental status changes with increased icp.9. peripheral neuropathy.10. peripheral vascular disease.11. penile amputation secondary to infected implant.12. depression.13. hep b and hep c positive.allergies:tetracycline.physical examination on admission:the patient was noted to be afebrile. his blood pressure wasnotable to be 240/79 and heart rate of 72. he was intubated onarrival on assist-control volume setting with the tidal volume of500 ml , 12 beats per minute , on 50% oxygen. he was saturating100% on room air. pulmonary exam was notable for mechanicalbreath sounds without any wheezes , rhonchi or rales.cardiovascular exam was notable for regular rate and rhythm , soft2/6 holosystolic murmur heard loudest at the apex , and 2+ pulsesdistally. his abdominal exam was unremarkable. extremity examwas notable for status post left leg below-the-knee amputation.neurologically , the patient was unresponsive secondary tosedation , but was able to move all extremities when the sedationwas decreased. he did responded ??_____?? purposefully to pain.hospital course by problems:1. torsade de pointes status post dc cardioversion: given hishistory of torsade de pointes requiring cardioversion , uponpresentation to neysing areid risbanks hospital , mr. mazikowskielectrolytes were vigorously repleted. he underwent an ischemicworkup for the etiology for his initial presentation. hecontinued to have a prolonged qt interval and therefore medicatedfailed to exacerbate his already long qt interval , at baselinewere discontinued. he was discontinued from his celexa andlevofloxacin. throughout the remainder of his hospital course ,mr. gift was closely monitored via telemetry and was noted tohave no further events of ventricular tachycardia.2. ischemia: when he presented , the ischemic etiology for hisventricular tachycardia was considered. he was maintained onaspirin and also continued on his plavix. a cardiaccatheterization was done on 7/24/05 , which showed 30% occlusionof the left anterior descending proximal coronary artery , 65%occlusion of the ramus , 30% occlusion of the mid circumflexartery , 50% occlusion of the marginal 1 artery , and 100%occlusion of the distal rca. none of these lesions were felt tohave caused his ischemia such that it would have been theetiological factor for his torsades. he was followed throughouthis hospital course by the electrophysiology service.3. hypertension: while in the ccu , the patient had an echo ,which showed severe concentric left ventricular hypertrophy withan ejection fraction of 55%. he was started on vigorousafter-load reduction , which was titrated to his blood pressurethroughout his hospital course. at the time of discharge , he wastaking lopressor , lisinopril , norvasc , isordil , and hydralazine.4. end-stage renal disease: the patient was continued on hisrepeat dialysis with close follow up from the renal service. heunderwent regular dialysis on monday , wednesday , and friday whileat apseph's danale hospital .  his electrolytes were followeddaily and repleted as needed.5. seizure disorder: the patient , although on presentation wasbelieved to have had a tonic-clonic seizure. he was maintainedon his keppra throughout his course and was seizure-free whilehospitalized.6. diabetes mellitus: the patient presented with markedlylabile blood sugars. while admitted to the ccu , he was placed onthe portland protocol in order to maintain tight glycemiccontrol. he was followed by the endocrine team , who recommendedswitch to lantus for basal control and regular insulin prior tomeals. his glucose levels were followed daily and his insulinregimen was titrated in order to attain appropriate glycemiccontrol.7. nutrition: the patient was initially started on tube feedsfor nutrition. a ng tube was placed secondary to his alteredmental status. however , during his hospitalization , he hadmultiple episodes of agitations , during which he pulled out hisng tube. he was trialed with a soft diet after consultation withthe speech and swallow service on 2/1 .  as he was able totolerate these p.o. feeds , this diet was continued.complications:none.consultants:1. electrophysiology service.2. renal service.3. endocrinology service.4. speech and swallow.5. physical therapy.medications at that time of discharge:tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. headache , aspirin 81 mg to betaken daily , colace 100 mg by mouth twice daily , folic acid 1 mgby mouth daily , heparin 5000 units to be injected subcutaneouslythree times daily while the patient is immobilized , hydralazine40 mg by mouth every six hours , to be held for systolic bloodpressure less than 100 , insulin sliding scale , regular insulin 3units to be taken prior to every meal , isordil 30 mg by mouththree times daily , to be held if systolic blood pressure is lessthan 90 , lopressor 25 mg by mouth three times daily , to be heldis systolic blood pressure is less than 100 or if the heart rateis less than 55 , nystatin mouthwash 500 units by mouth to be usedfour times daily , keppra 500 mg by mouth once daily , nexium 40 mgby mouth twice daily , lantus insulin 10 units subcutaneously oncedaily , lisinopril 40 mg by mouth once daily , norvasc 10 mg bymouth once daily , to be held for systolic blood pressure lessthan 100 , lipitor 80 mg by mouth once daily , nephrocaps onetablet by mouth once daily , and plavix 75 mg by mouth once daily.physical examination at the time of discharge:the patient is in no acute distress. he is cachetic appearingmale. pulmonary exam is notable for breath sounds that arecoarse bilaterally. upper airways sounds are prominent. cardiacsounds are distant. he does have a systolic ejection murmurloudest at the apex. his abdomen is benign. there was some mildtenderness noted to be in the epigastrium. however , there is norebound or guarding. his extremity exam is notable for statuspost left above-the-knee amputation. the patient is to follow upwith his primary care physician and is to follow up withendocrinology and to continue his dialysis on monday , wednesday ,and friday. he is to be discharged to a rehabilitation facility.escription document: 7-4140501 emssten teldictated by: mccutcheon , lutherattending: almada , jeffersondictation id 7629538d: 1/5/05t: 1/5/05