record #272061898367394 | gnjrh | 32404129 | | 6048667 | 5/18/2005 12:00:00 am | hypokalemia | unsigned | dis | admission date: 5/18/2005 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 9/14/2005attending: sarcone , bernardo bradley mdadmission diagnoses:1. weakness.2. congestive heart failure.discharge diagnoses:1. bacteremia.2. giant cell arteritis.3. congestive heart failure.consults: neurology on 11/0/05 .procedure: attempted lumbar puncture on 11/0/05history of present illness: the patient is an 81-year-old malewith history of diabetes mellitus , hypertension , atrialfibrillation , giant cell arteritis , and congestive heart failurewith preserved systolic function , who presents with generalizedweakness. on the day of admission , the patient's children andvna were unable to get in touch with him and came to his house ,where he was sitting too weak to answer the door. at that time ,he was apparently confused and disoriented. the patient reportsfeeling poorly for about two years since his diagnosis with giantcell arteritis , but denied any acute change over the past severaldays prior to admission. he denied focal weakness , slurredspeech , bowel or bladder incontinence , loss of consciousness andhad no witnessed seizure activity. he also denied chest pain , palpitations ,shortness of breath , increased dyspnea on exertion , orthopnea ,and also had no report of fever , cough , dysuria , urinaryfrequency , diarrhea , abdominal pain , jaw claudication , calftenderness , or vision loss. he did think that he had recentlylost weight and has chronic lower extremity edema and chronicright shoulder pain. in the ed , he was afebrile with pulse of78 , blood pressure 124/60 , and breathing 16 times per minute.his potassium was noted to be low. chest x-ray showed pulmonaryedema and head ct was negative. he received potassium andmagnesium repletion as well as oxycodone for right shoulder painand was admitted for weakness in the setting of hypokalemia andvolume overload.past medical history: congestive heart failure with preservedsystolic function , chronic lower extremity edema , diabetesmellitus type 2 , history of atrial fibrillation s/p dc cardioversion ,hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , giant cell arteritis , chronic renalinsufficiency , history of spinal stenosis , gout , depression , andstatus post recent left thigh ulcer excision.admission medications: coumadin 2.5 mg p.o. daily , zocor 20 mgp.o. daily , atenolol 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,lisinopril 40 mg p.o. daily , medrol 10 mg daily , glyburide 10 mgp.o. b.i.d. , potassium chloride 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. , andmultivitamin 1 tab p.o. daily.allergies: no known drug allergies.social history: the patient lives alone with a cat. his sonvisits him daily. he denies tobacco use but reports alcohol useof one drink a day.admission physical examination: vitals - afebrile , pulse 74 ,blood pressure 105/51 , respirations 18 , and sats 92% on room air.gen - nad , pleasant elderly gentleman. heent - mmm , oropharynxwas clear. neck - jvp is 12 cm. pulm - poor inspiratory efforton exam , left side mostly clear with decreased breath sounds andrales at the right base. cv - regular rate with early beats andno murmurs , gallops , or rubs appreciated. abd - soft , nontender ,and nondistended with positive bowel sounds. ext - 1+ pittingedema to knees , faint distal pulses , left thigh sutures with mildsurrounding erythema. neuro - cranial nerves ii through xiigrossly intact , motor strength is 5/5 throughout except the rightdeltoid , which is limited by pain and hip flexors , which were 4/5bilaterally.admission ekg: normal sinus rhythm with a rate of 78 , t waveinversions in avl , which were old.hospital course:1. id - the patient developed hypotension on the morning of11/0/05 . he was given iv fluids , stress dose steroids , andstarted on broader antibiotic coverage ( vancomycin andlevofloxacin ). he was also started on acyclovir with concern forencephalopathy in the setting of increased lethargy andright-sided deficits reported earlier that morning. he respondedto iv fluids and did not require pressor support. a lumbarpuncture was attempted and was unsuccessful. his blood culturesfrom 11/0/05 in the a.m. grew gram-negative rods and antibioticswhich were changed to ceftriaxone and levofloxacin for doublegram-negative coverage. the other cultures grew one out of fourpansensitive pseudomonas and one out of four bacteroides fragilisand his antibiotics were changed to ceftazidime , levofloxacin ,and flagyl. the acyclovir was stopped. blood cultures wererepeated on the evening of 11/0/05 and were negative. he wasdischarged home with a picc line to complete a 14-day course ofantibiotics. at the time of discharge , the patient was afebrileand vital signs were stable. his white blood cell count waselevated likely secondary to steroids. the source of hisbacteremia was unclear , but most likely a bowel origin given itsspecies and would consider microperforation as the possibility.a follow-up colonoscopy may be considered as an outpatient.other sources include sinusitis and recent removal of a left legulcer , but were unlikely to result in pseudomonas andbacteroides.2. neuro - the patient presented with generalized nonfocalweakness. on the morning of 11/0/05 , he developed focalright-sided weakness , aphasia , and lethargy/confusion. stat headct/cta and neuro consult were done and the patient was started onacyclovir for concern of cns infection. lumbar puncture wasattempted but was unsuccessful. cta was negative for acute strokeand mri/mra was also done and was negative. the patient'sright-sided deficits were transient and the patient's mentalstatus also improved during the rest of his hospitalization. thecause of his acute symptoms were unclear , but included giant cellarteritis exacerbation , recrudescence of previous stroke ,transient hypotension from sepsis and tia. interestingly , onreview of his chart , it was also found that the initial ednursing note per ems reported right-sided weakness , which musthave been transient as well because the ed physician note waswithout focality.3. cv/pulm - ( i ) the patient denied chest pain and troponin wasnegative x 2. he was continued on aspirin and statin andrestarted on beta-blocker when his blood pressures improved.( p ) - the patient has a history of diastolic congestive heartfailure and was admitted with mild pulmonary edema on chestx-ray. he was initially given lasix , but was discontinued on themorning 11/0/05 in the setting of hypertension. he alsocomplained of shortness of breath at that time , but chest x-raywas repeated , which showed clear lungs. his sats were 94 to 95%on two to three liters of oxygen. he required aggressive fluidresuscitation for his hypotension , which he tolerated well. heagain became short of breath on the morning of 4/17/05 and wasthought to be mildly volume overloaded. he was given iv lasix andrestarted on daily p.o. lasix. he was discharged on 40 mg p.o.b.i.d. lasix.( r ) - the patient has a history of atrial fibrillation and statuspost dc cardioversion. he presented in sinus rhythm. he didrequire iv lopressor and verapamil for rapid rate atrial flutteron 9/4/05 to 4/17/05 , which was somewhat refractory totreatment. however , his rate quickly improved on placement of afoley in the setting of difficulty voiding and a large bladderresidual. at the time of discharge , he was restarted on his homedose of atenolol.4. renal - the patient presented with chronic renalinsufficiency , which remained stable during his hospitalization.his creatinine ranged from 1.5 to 1.9. the patient's foleycatheter was removed on 9/4/05 and the patient began tocomplain of urinary frequency and urgency on 4/17/05 .urinalysis and urine culture were negative. however , postvoidresidual was one liter and his foley was replaced. on discharge ,he was given a trial to void , which was not completed. it wasrecommended that the patient be discharged with a foley , but wasdeclined. the patient and his family were informed of our recommendation. hehas vna services scheduled who are awareof his urinary difficulty and should check postvoid residual and replace thefoley or teach straight cath as needed.5. heme - the patient has a history of atrial fibrillation andwas previously on coumadin anticoagulation. however , hiscoumadin was stopped several days prior to admission for left legulcer excision and presented subtherapeutic with an inr of 1.2.his coumadin was held during his stay in the micu , but wasrestarted prior to discharge. he will be followed by cmhanticoagulation and should be closely monitored in the setting ofantibiotics. on discharge , his inr was 1.6.6. derm - the patient had a left leg ulcer excision several daysprior to admission. the patient should have sutures removedafter discharge at two weeks post excision. the site was anunlikely source of his bacteremia.7. rheum/endocrine- the patient has a history of giant cellarteritis. esr was elevated to 99 on admission. the patient wasinitially continued on home dose medrol. however , on the morningof 11/0/05 , in the setting of right-sided weakness , mentalstatus change , and hypotension , the patient was changed tohigh-dose solu-medrol with concern for his gcaexacerbation/vasculitis. when the cultures grew preliminarygram-negative rods and mri of the brain was negative forvasculitis , he was changed to stress dose hydrocortisone.steroids were tapered during hospitalization and the patient wasdischarged on a continued taper back over one week to his home dose medrol 10mg per day. the patient was also on glyburide as an outpatientfor diabetes mellitus. as an inpatient , he was given insulin formore aggressive control. on discharge , the patient was tocontinue on twice per day insulin 70/30 while recovering andtapering steroids. as an outpatient , it may be considered toresume his oral agents in place of insulin.8. access- the patient had a right internal jugular centralvenous line placed in the micu , which was discontinued prior todischarge. a picc line was placed for home antibiotics.9. fen- the patient presented with hypokalemia to 2.9 and requiredmultiple doses of repletion. at the time of discharge , hispotassium was 3.1 and received additional potassium on that day.he was discharged on a regimen of 40 meq of potassium chlorideper day. he will need his potassium to be rechecked as anoutpatient in the setting of receiving daily lasix. however ,there was concern for more aggressive outpatient repletion in thesetting of chronic renal insufficiency.10. prophylaxis- the patient was given nexium and lovenox.radiological studies:1. ct head on 0/18/05 - no acute intracranial abnormality ,bilateral maxillary and ethmoid sinus mucosal thickening.2. portable chest x-ray on 0/18/05 - mild pulmonary edema.3. pa and lateral chest x-ray on 0/18/05 - stable with mildcardiomegaly , no acute pulmonary process.4. cta head , 11/0/05 - paraventricular white matter changesconsistent with small vessel ischemia; mild-to-moderate atrophywith compensatory ventricular megaly , mild- to-moderate proximalright internal carotid artery stenosis with calcification andatheroma; calcifications of the bilateral segments at theinternal carotid arteries as well as the bifurcation of theproximal left internal carotid artery with no appreciablestenosis and calcification and mild narrowing of the origin ofthe right vertebral artery; complete opacification of bilateralmaxillary sinus , mucosal thickening of the bilateral ethmoid andsphenoid sinuses; degenerative changes at the cervical spine.5. portable chest x-ray , 11/0/05 - no change in cardiacsilhouette or pulmonary parenchyma from 0/18/05 .6. portable chest x-ray , 11/0/05 - improved aeration of theright lung base allowing visualization of the righthemidiaphragm; placement of right jugular central venous catheterwith tip in the svc; no pneumothorax.7. mr of the brain with and without contrast , 11/0/05 - noevidence of acute infarction , no intracranial collections of masslesions; mild involutional changes present.8. portable chest x-ray , 10/0/05 , bibasilar opacities due atleast in part to atelectasis; right jugular central venouscatheter was stable in position; no evidence for substantialpleural effusion or pneumothorax.cardiology studies: echocardiogram on 10/0/05 - normal lv size ,ef 55% to 60% , no wall motion abnormalities; normal rv; atrialsize normal; trace to mild mr; mild tr , pap 38.microbiological study:1. blood cultures , 11/0/05 admission - one out of fourbacteroides fragilis , one out of four pansensitive pseudomonasaeruginosa.2. blood cultures , 11/0/05 , in the evening - no growth.3. urine culture , 11/0/05 - no growth.4. urine culture , 4/17/05 - negative with total colony count of1000 yeast.5. vre and mrsa screen on 11/0/05 - negative.6. c. diff screen on 4/17/05 - negative.disposition: the patient is to be discharged on 8/3/05 instable condition to home with services.discharge medications:1. tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. headache.2. enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.3. atenolol 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.4. ceftazidime 1000 mg iv q.24h. with the last dose on 8/11/05 .5. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.6. lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.7. medrol taper 12 mg every 12 hours x4 doses , then 10 mg every12 hours x4 days , then 8 mg every 12 hours x4 doses , then 6 mgevery 12 hours x4 doses , and then continue methylprednisolonep.o. at 10 mg q.24h. indefinitely.8. flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d.9. coumadin 1.25 mg p.o. q.p.m.10. zocor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s.11. insulin 70/30 , 20 units subcu q.a.m. and 12 units subcuq.p.m.12. levofloxacin 250 mg p.o. daily to end on 8/11/05 .13. flomax 0.4 mg p.o. daily.14. insulin sliding scale , subcu b.i.d. only at breakfast anddinner.15. potassium chloride 40 meq p.o. daily.to do/plan:1. medication changes: holding lisinopril and glyburide; reducinglasix from 80 mg twice per day to 40 mg twice per day; coumadindose halved on antibiotics ( ach anticoagulation may adjust thisbased on lab values ); steroid taper over the week followingdischarge to his original dose; last dose of antibiotics on8/11/05 , the picc line can be removed when his course ofceftazidime is complete.2. the patient is on insulin two times per day while recovering.possibility to return to glyburide should be discussed with hispcp once steroid taper and antibiotics completed.3. it was recommended that the patient be discharged with thefoley catheter given his difficulty voiding , however , hedeclined. his ability to void should be assessed by the vnaservices and the patient should be straight cathed as necessary.4. the patient should record daily weights and keep aglucose log , which should be presented at his pcp follow-up.5. the patient should follow up with his pcp within one week andhave lytes checked at that time.6. the vna services should check a chem-7 on sunday followingdischarge. inr is to be followed by itmc anticoagulation clinicat 512-620-3138.escription document: 3-5178882 cssten teldictated by: neil , issacattending: eskra , noble rileydictation id 3619018d: 11/28/05t: 11/28/05[report_end]