record #162873628067332 | dh | 51917699 | | 2538239 | 6/16/2006 12:00:00 am | aortic stenosis | unsigned | dis | admission date: 8/20/2006 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 11/25/2007attending: larr , elvis ted mdprincipal admission diagnosis: severe aortic stenosis andcongestive heart failure.history of present illness: briefly , ms. quist is an81-year-old female with a known history of severe aortic stenosisand multiple medical comorbidities who had been transferred froman outside hospital to the coronary care unit forcongestive heart failure likely related to overwhelming aorticdisease. she had previously declined aortic valve replacement inthe year prior to her admission. she had an echo performed atoutside hospital just prior to admission to lumca hospital showed an ef of 55-60% with severe aortic stenosis , anaortic valve area of 0.6 cm square as well as 1+ mitral regurgand 1-2+ tricuspid regurg. she was admitted to the medicalservice at mh where she was aggressively diuresed. she was alsoprepared for urgent aortic valve replacement and possiblecoronary artery bypass grafting. at the time of her admission ,her past medical history included hypertension , peripheralvascular disease , history of stroke with left upper extremitysensory loss , diabetes type 2 , hypothyroidism ,hypercholesterolemia , renal failure with bilateral renal arterystenosis , parkinsonianism , iron-deficiency anemia , vitamin b12deficiency , obstructive sleep apnea , seizure disorder and coloncancer status post resection in 1987. she is unable to elaborateon the details of that resection. she also had renal arterystenting in 2005.allergies: stated allergies at the time of admission includedlipitor for which she had myalgias and an erythromycin with areaction of which was unknown.medications: her admission medications include labetolol 150p.o. daily , amlodipine 5 mg p.o. daily , isordil 30 mg p.o.t.i.d. , aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily , plavix 75 mg daily , coumadin 5p.o. daily , lasix 60 mg twice a day , colace 100 mg twice a day ,iron sulfate 325 once a day , folic acid 1 mg p.o. once day ,hydralazine 25 mg daily and synthroid 88 mcg daily as well asdilantin 300 mg p.o. twice a day.physical examination: at the time of admission , her physicalexam showed a woman 5 feet 1 inches tall , weighing 94 kilos inobvious mild respiratory distress. her temperature was 97 and heartrate was 83 and sinus. her blood pressure in the right arm was120/63 , in the left arm was 109/53. she was on 5l of nasalcannula while satting 99%. the remainder of her physical exam wasnotable only for a loud holosystolic murmur at the right uppersternal border and radiation to her both carotid arteries. herallen's test showed severely dampened waveform in both left andright radial arteries. her chest sounded congested with ralespresent bilaterally and her extremities showed 1-2+ bilaterallower extremity edema. her carotid , radial and femoral arterieswere all 2+ , but her dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial werepresent only by doppler bilaterally.laboratory data: notable lab data at the time of admissionincluded a bun and creatinine of 79 and 3.1 respectively and abeta natriuretic peptide of 39 , 085. cardiac catheterization performed on10/3/06 showed 60% lesion of the ostial lad as well as an 80% proximal ladlesion. she also had 90% ostial d1 and a 40% ostial om1 lesion and rightdominant circulation. her echo on 7/1/06 showed an ejection fraction of60% , severe aortic stenosis with a mean gradient of 60 mmhg and apeak gradient of 99 mmhg. again her calculated valve area is 0.6cm square. her chest x-ray on 7/1/06 was consistent withcongestive heart failure and appeared very fluid overloaded. shewas taken on 10/3/06 to the operating room where aortic valvereplacement with aortic root patch was performed , 21 biocorporcine graft was inserted. she also had a two-vessel coronaryartery bypass grafting using vein to her left anterior descendingand vein grafting to her d1 vessel. she tolerated the procedurerelatively well , but her ensuing icu course was protracted andvery complicated and will be summarized systematically.neurologically , the patient suffered no acute complicationspostoperatively; however , her state of consciousness waxed andwaned with her overall condition.from a cardiovascular standpoint , the patient suffered a perioperative mi inthe late hours of 10/3/06 and on to the early hours of 11/29/06 .  she alsowent into atrial fibrillation on postoperative day two andsuffered rhythm abnormalities for the remainder of herpostoperative course. multiple conversion attempts were madeboth pharmaceutically as well as with electrocardioversion , butshe occasionally did covert to normal sinus rhythm. ultimately ,she reverted back into atrial fibrillation. the thirdpostoperative day , she became hypotensive and asystolic. chestcompressions were initiated for less than one minute at whichtime atrial pacing was initiated and her rhythm was regained withadequate blood pressure , though she was returned on to severaldays of active drips to support her blood pressure. from thispoint , ms. pavick developed dependence on pressors and inotropicagents to support her blood pressure and cardiovascular system.after several months with no real recovery of her cardiovascularstatus , the family decided to withdraw care and put her oncomfort measures only. she ultimately suffered a cardiac arreston 6/21/07 . from a pulmonary perspective , while she was extubated on the morning ofpostoperative day #2 , she was ultimately reintubated and several pulmonarycomplications required multiple bronchoscopies , multiple thoracentesis on bothchest for recurrent effusions and several chest tubes had to be placed foraforementioned effusions. she was ultimately trached by the thirdweek and although she did occasionally come off the ventilator attimes , she never displayed adequate pulmonary function to be freefrom vent dependence for any length of time.from a gi perspective , with her trach , she underwent a percutaneousendoscopic gastrostomy tube for enteral feeds and at times needed to beplaced on total parenteral nutrition as she only occassionally toleratedtube feeds. she did develop a clostridium difficile infectionand had to be placed on long-term tpn until resolution of thatinfection.her renal status at baseline was poor , though she was not on dialysis.postoperatively , she never recovered any meaningful renal function of her own.she was placed on continuous venovenous hemodialysis by the thirdweek ultimately became anuric , requiring triweekly hemodialysis on monday ,wednesday and friday , a schedule she was managed on until the time of herdeath.from an id standpoint , she developed many bacteremias and giinfections as previously discussed. the infectious disease teamwas involved in her care and there recommendations were followedthroughout her hospitalization. for the greater duration of hericu course , she was maintained on vancomycin , levofloxacin andflagyl on and off for multiple infections.from an endocrine standpoint , she was maintained on her synthroid dosing andwas on a czi drip for blood sugar control throughout her icu course.hematologically , the patient was transfused many many bloodproducts over the course of her icu stay. she also developedheparin-induced thrombocytopenia and subsequent clots to her leftlower extremity requiring vascular surgery intervention. she hadembolectomy and thrombectomy of her left common femoral artery aswell as a left common femoral endarterectomy with patchangioplasty on 6/13/06 .  she was maintained on bivalirudin andcoumadin throughout her icu course.given her preoperative status and multiple medical comorbidities as well as heroverall poor prognosis through many postsurgical complications , a familymeeting on 10/30/07 resulted in decision to withdraw support and providecomfort measures only. at that time , tube feeds were stopped , hemodialysis wasstoppedand the patient was made comfortable with morphine until herultimate cardiac arrest at 0235 am on 6/21/07 . escription document: 2-1479501 cssten teldictated by: ramrirez , wilburnattending: dobre , jasper elliottdictation id 5359012d: 4/30/07t: 7/7/07[report_end]