140176590 | pmc | 89630638 | | 138796 | 7/23/1991 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | unsigned | dis | admission date: 7/23/1991 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 11/2/1991diagnosis: 1 )coronary artery disease.2 )adult onset diabetes mellitus.3 )status post coronary artery bypass grafting.4 )hypertension.5 )status post total abdominal hysterectomy andbilateral salpingo oophorectomy.operation: reoperation coronary artery bypass grafting by dr.errol mikhail on 11 of october .history of present illness: the patient is a 54-year-old blackwoman who is status post coronaryartery bypass grafting approximately two years ago by dr. miccichewho had developed recurrent substernal chest pain approximatelyfour months after her bypass surgery. the patient underwentexercise treadmill testing which showed non-diagnostic st segmentchanges. however , thallium studies revealed decreased perfusion tothe apex , superior portion of the septum as well as theanterolateral wall. there was reperfusion of the high septal andanterolateral wall. the patient then proceeded to cardiaccatheterization which revealed 100% stenosis of her previous graft.additionally there was 100% mid stenosis of the right coronaryartery , 80% stenosis of the left anterior descending , 90% midstenosis of the first diagonal , and 100% stenosis of the circumflexafter the first obtuse marginal. there was anterior hypokinesis aswell as apical and inferior akinesis. there was severely decreasedleft ventricular function. the pulmonary pressures were fairlyunremarkable. thus , the patient presented for reop coronary arterybypass grafting.hospital course: the patient was taken to the operating room on11 of october .  under general endotracheal anesthesiacoronary artery bypass grafting times three was performed. theright internal mammary artery was grafted to the first diagonal aswell as saphenous vein graft to the left anterior descending , theold obtuse marginal graft , and the second diagonal. the patientwas found to have dense cardiac adhesions. her old right coronaryartery graft was occluded and the old obtuse marginal graft wastightly stenotic at the origin. the left internal mammary arterywas subtotally occluded distally. the patient spontaneouslydefibrillated and demonstrated modestly decreased left ventricularfunction. the patient was taken to the cardiac intensive care unitin stable rhythm with stable vital signs. postoperatively thepatient's course was thoroughly unremarkable. the patient requiredsodium nitroprusside in the immediate postoperative period. therewas no evidence of postoperative myocardial infarction. thepatient was successfully extubated on the second postoperative dayand her mediastinal and pleural tubes were also pulled withoutsignificant incident. the patient's diuresis was initiated andtolerated well. the rest of the patient's postoperative course wasunremarkable. she remained in normal sinus rhythm without anyevidence of arrhythmia. she was essentially afebrile and herwounds were all healing well. however , on chest x-ray it wasdemonstrated that the patient had right lower lobe collapse.because of her afebrile state and good oxygenation on room air thepatient was not bronch'd in order to re-expand her right lowerlobe. at the time of dictation , one day prior to proposeddischarge the patient's chest x-ray showed some improved aerationof that lower lobe. thus , the patient will likely be discharged on18 of may .disposition: discharge medications: atenolol 50 mg po q d , babyaspirin one po q d , diabinese 500 mg po q d , ironsulfate 325 mg po tid , colace , percocet. the patient will bedischarged to home. follow-up: she will follow-up with dr.rory broadnax in four to five weeks and with private medicaldoctor and cardiologist in one to two weeks. the patient will alsohave visiting nurse come in to check on her in the immediatepostoperative period.bk509/0151ramon h. lepez , m.d. qf7 d: 7/2/91batch: 4119 report: i9976n03 t: 4/19/91dictated by: lee catholic , m.d. ew12