555400218 | cuc | 91355779 | | 839132 | 7/9/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/4/1994 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/5/1994principal diagnosis: congestive heart failuresecondary diagnoses: 1. pulmonary embolus2. dilated cardiomyopathyhistory of present illness: the patient is a 65 year old womanwith dilated cardiomyopathy secondaryto adriamycin , status post recent admission for increased shortnessof breath and left pleural effusion. he returns now with increasedcough productive of white phlegm and progressive dyspnea onexertion. the patient has a history of breast carcinoma in 1989 ,treated with left lumpectomy x 2 and xrt , accompanied bychemotherapy completed in early 1990. the patient then presented injuly of 1992 with progressive dyspnea on exertion , found to havean ejection fraction of 17%. she was diagnosed with cardiomyopathyfelt secondary to adriamycin toxicity. she was then treated withdigoxin , lasix , captopril and coumadin with good result. she hadsubsequent development of svt with a rapid ventricular rate ofapproximately 180. the patient eventually underwent epep studieswith therapeutic ablation. subsequently she had done quite welluntil february of 1994 when she presented with mild coughproductive of white phlegm and increasing symptoms of right andleft-sided heart failure. she was treated with increased lasix anddigoxin and an empiric course of amoxicillin with little change inher symptoms. she was then admitted on 8/7 after she was found tohave a large left-sided pleural effusion. the patient underwentultrasound guided thoracentesis complicated by a pneumothoraxrequiring chest tube placement. evaluation of the pleural fluidrevealed a transudative effusion with all cultures and cytologyremaining negative. the patient was treated with ancef forapproximately 7 days while the chest tube was in place and thendischarged on 6/20/94. since that time the patient has had noimprovement in her symptoms but rather notes increasing cough whichremains productive of white sputum with occasional "specks of red"and progression of her dyspnea on exertion. she is now unable togo greater than six steps of stair without significant dyspnea.this is a significant change from approximately one month ago whereshe was able to go two flights without extreme difficulty. she hasstable 3 + pillow orthopnea and pedal edema. her weight hasincreased only slightly recently. she denies any fever , chills ,sweats , chest discomfort or pleuritic chest pain. she does notanorexia and malaise without myalgias or arthralgias. past medicalhistory: 1. dilated cardiomyopathy as above. 2. breast carcinomaas above. 3. hypothyroid 4. depression allergies: no known drugallergies. habits , distant tobacco use , none since 1967 , no etoh.medications: digoxin 0.25 mg q day , lasix 80 mg q day , capoten 50mg t.i.d. , aspirin one per day , synthroid 2 gr. per day , tamoxifen10 mg b.i.d. , elavil 75 mg q day , k-dur 1 q day. social history:the patient lives with her boyfriend , she is widowed withoutchildren. she is a semi-retired accounts manager. family history:there is no family history of cardiac disease.physical examination: temperature 100.6 , blood pressure 116/65 ,heart rate is 100 , respiratory rate 18. 02saturation 90% on room air. the patient is alert , responsive ,febrile and in no acute distress. her conjunctiva are clear ,extraocular movements intact , her oropharynx is clear. she has nolymphadenopathy. jugular venous pressure is approximately 8 cm at30 degrees. lung examination is remarkable for a few rales at theleft base , decreased breath sounds at the right base with dullnessto percussion. cardiac examination , regular rate and rhythm withnormal si , sii , positive siii. abdomen is soft and non-tender ,slightly distended. she has pitting edema almost to the kneesbilaterally. neurological examination is non focal.laboratory data: sma-7 is notable for a potassium of 5.4 andcreatinine of 1.2 with a bun of 20. cbcdemonstrated a white count of 14 , hematocrit of 42.9 , platelets289 , digoxin level was 1.2. chest x-ray showed a left pleuraleffusion which is unchanged , a new right pleural effusion +-consolidation. ekg showed sinus rhythm at 98 , left axis deviation ,normal intervals , low voltage with poor r wave progression , nosignificant change compared with 7/24/94.hospital course: the patient was admitted with a picture of chronicproductive cough , progressive dyspnea with lowgrade fevers and increased white blood cell count , in addition tonew opacity on chest x-ray. this clinical picture was felt to bemostly from a progressive infectious process superimposed onunderlying congestive heart failure versus post-obstructiveinfection versus atelectasis with an endobronchial lesion. thepatient was started on empiric course of antibiotics includingcefotaxime and clarithromycin. she was seen in consultation by thepulmonary service which felt that a therapeutic trial of aggressivediuresis was warranted prior to any more aggressive interventionsuch as bronchoscopy or repeat thoracentesis. the patient was thustreated with aggressive iv diuresis with excellent symptomaticresult. as her symptoms and chest x-ray cleared , it was felt thata chest ct would be valuable in evaluating her left lower lobe forpossible endobronchial lesion leading to volume loss. she thusunderwent a chest ct on 2/6/94 with demonstration of a largeperipheral , red , right lower lobe opacity , highly suggestive of aright lower lobe pulmonary infarction. no endobronchial lesions orlymphadenopathy were noted. given the patient's history of dilatedcardiomyopathy , off anticoagulation , an extensive discussion of thechest ct findings with the chest radiologist and pulmonary consultteam , it was felt that the patient should be treated empiricallyfor a pulmonary embolus. she was thus started on iv heparin withachievement of therapeutic ptt prior to switching to oral coumadinwithout complications. in addition the patient underwent lowerextremity non-invasives which were negative for deep venousthrombosis as well as a cardiac echocardiogram which showed noevidence of rv strain or right ventricular thrombus. of note , thisechocardiogram again demonstrated moderately large left ventriclewith severely depressed systolic function and an estimated ejectionfraction of 15-20%. though the possibility that the wedge shapedopacification seen on ct was due to pneumonia rather thaninfarction , it was felt that given the patient's low ejectionfraction she would need to be anticoagulated on this basis alone ,and thus pulmonary angiogram or vq scan would not be likely toalter management. the patient was discharged to home.disposition: the patient was discharged to home. medications:elavil 75 mg p.o. q h.s.; captopril 50 mg p.o. t.i.d.;biaxin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.; digoxin 0.125 mg alternating with 0.25mg q day; lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d.; tamoxifen 10 mg p.o. b.i.d.;thyroid 2 grains p.o. q day; coumadin 5 mg p.o. q day; k-dur 20 mgp.o. b.i.d.; ambien 10 mg p.o. q h.s. followup with dr. gunsolus atthe leyer memorial hospitaldictated by: ahmed m. heiliger , m.d. sk04attending: elwood a. coggsdale , m.d. sh3qg218/6051batch: 7155 index no. ptey6lf96 d: 3/10/94t: 8/10/94