record #700180962087273 | th | 12854369 | | 3620968 | 11/9/2006 12:00:00 am | heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 8/20/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 4/22/2006attending: kraus , raleigh louis mdhistory of present illness: the patient is a 67-year-old femalewho is transferred from an outside hospital for furthermanagement of her chf. the patient is a 67-year-old female withhistory of coronary artery disease who was first evaluated backin 2002 when she had a stent placed at thc for symptomaticcoronary artery disease. she reports feeling well until 0/2when she developed substernal chest burning and pressure and wasadmitted to trowestpot allch memorial hospital , where a dobutamine echo waspositive for ischemia , details unclear and she was transferred toiiah for further care. at deran medical center ,angiography was performed on 11/0/06 with placement of a cypherstent in her lad. the evening following discharge , the patientreported severe substernal chest pressure and activated her localems. on the way to the hospital , she suffered a vfib arrhythmiarequiring cpr and 9 defibrillations. at geft.o ton memorial hospital ,she was acutely intervened upon with ptca and found to have athrombosed lad stent. at this point , she was transferred tor. medical center of on an intraaortic balloon pump forsupport. repeat angiography was performed revealing suboptimaldeployment of the initial stent , which was subsequently outsizedto a diameter of 3.5 mm and additional stenting was performeddistal to the original stent with good anterograde flow notedpostprocedure. the patient was managed in the ccu , where sheremained intubated on the intraaortic balloon pump. hospitalcourse was notable for distributive and cardiogenic shock as wellas aspiration pneumonia and hsv , treated with acyclovir. sheimproved after two weeks and was discharged on 2/24/06 with anef of 40% at the time of discharge. the patient was readmittedto tacan hospital and on 7/14/06 with a chf exacerbation , wassubsequently diuresed and discharged on 7/23/06 . echocardiography at that time demonstrated an ef of 55% with 2 to3+ mr and rvsp of 45 mmhg. the patient represented to harl hospital on 5/24/06 reporting progressive dyspnea , weightgain , pnd , orthopnea and cough. at that time , she underwentrepeat angiography demonstrating ra 14 , rv 55/13 , pa 61/25/42 ,pcwp 35 with v 246 , lhc with ao 86/57. angiography revealed aright dominant circulation and lmca , which was patent , lad 20%mid , d1 40% , ostial left circumflex 20% mid , rca 60% prox , lvgram with an ef of 25% associated with global hypokinesis andsevere mr. the patient was subsequently transferred to palm health systems for further management of her advanced heart failure.past medical history: significant in addition to above forhypertension , type 2 diabetes on insulin , obesity , copd ,hyperlipidemia , gerd , hypothyroidism , depression , status postappendectomy and status post cholecystectomy.medications on transfer: include aspirin 325 daily , lasix 80 mgiv b.i.d. , diovan 160 mg daily , plavix 75 mg daily , levothyroxine88 mcg daily , lipitor 20 mg daily , zetia 10 mg daily , aldactone25 mg daily , protonix 20 mg daily , advair 500/50 one puff dailyand insulin 70/30 , 30 units subq b.i.d.allergies: include erythromycin.social history: the patient lives with her husband and works ina clothing company. she smokes 1-2 packs per day x46 years untilnine years ago. no alcohol use. no illicits.family history: the patient reports coronary artery disease inone sibling. no premature cardiac catheterization. mother diedof cervical cancer. father died of alcoholism.review of systems: the patient denies fever , chills , nausea ,vomiting , abdominal pain , hemoptysis , bright red blood perrectum , hematochezia , or melena , no chest pain or palpitations.positive for cough and shortness of breath. no changes in mentalstatus or loss of consciousness , no dysuria , no exposures. norecent travel. no presyncope or dizziness.laboratory data on admission: notable for creatinine of 1 frombaseline of 0.7 to 0.8. hematocrit of 34 , baseline 37. alt 68 ,ast 33 and alkaline phosphatase 384 down from 616 on lastadmission. inr 1. ekg , sinus rhythm at 90 , normal axisintervals with old anterior septal mi.physical examination: notable for afebrile , heart rate in the90s , blood pressure 98/60 , respiratory rate 18-20 , satting 98% on3 liters. the patient was in no acute distress , pleasant ,resting comfortably. oropharynx clear. jvp 10 cm with 2+carotids without bruits. no thyromegaly , no lymphadenopathy.decreased breath sounds with bibasilar crackles with prolongedexpiratory phase and intermittent expiratory wheezing. regularrate and rhythm , s1 and s2. notable s3 , no mr appreciated.abdomen was obese , distended , soft , nontender , nohepatosplenomegaly. positive bowel sounds. extremities , 1+lower extremity edema to the shins with 1+ dp and pt pulsesbilaterally. pretibial erythema , right greater than left. noother rashes. right groin minimally tender without bruit. cathsite clean , dry , intact. neurologic exam is nonfocal.assessment and plan: in summary , this is a 67-year-old femalewith multiple cardiac risk factors including hypertension ,hyperlipidemia , diabetes , coronary artery disease status post ladstent complicated by a subacute thrombosis with marked leftventricular dysfunction with a reportedly revascularized rightcoronary territory and severe mr on repeat echo. despitediuresis at the outside hospital , the patient remained volumeoverloaded with biventricular failure on exam. the patient wasadmitted to medically optimized heart failure regimen to furtherclarify component of mitral regurgitation. repeat tte and rightand left heart catheterization to further evaluate and optimizemedical management. the patient was maintained on aspirin ,plavix , arb , statin and zetia. beta-blocker was continued at lowdose given decompensated state. adenosine mibi was completed ,which was notable for recovery 1 mm st depressions in leads ii ,iii and avf , which resolved. there is no further evidence ofischemia. ef was notable to be severely depressed; however ,moderate mr on outside hospital echo was not reproducible here.cardiovascular surgery was initially consulted to furtherevaluate for benefit of mitral valve replacement surgery;however , this will likely not be of benefit given mild mr onrepeat echo. in addition a contrast echo was performed tofurther evaluate for evidence of clot given the severe rightventricle malfunction , and anticoagulation was started; however ,there was no evidence of clot on echo. in addition , on echo ,reevaluated for dyssynchrony , which was negative. the patientwas diuresed with iv lasix until near euvolemic and thentransitioned to p.o. regimen. the patient was maintained onaldactone. the ep service evaluated for possible placement ofaicd versus biventricular pacemaker; however , given the patientis not yet outside of three-month window and was noninducible onep study , she will need close monitoring as an outpatient withrepeat echo in 2 months and a further ep study to readdress. thepatient will be anticoagulated in the meantime. respiratory:the patient has history of copd with no evidence of acuteexacerbation. inhalers were continued. pfts and vo2 study maybe considered as an outpatient. renal: creatinine was mildlyelevated compared with baseline , likely secondary to mild dyenephropathy and overaggressive diuresis. creatinine stabilized ,will need to be followed closely as an outpatient as well aselectrolytes. gi. the patient was maintained on a bowelregimen. lfts were elevated on admission consistent with rightheart failure versus statin. lfts trended down on admission.hemoglobin and hematocrit remained stable at baseline. thepatient will remain on heparin to coumadin bridge with lovenoxbridge as an outpatient if needed. endocrine: the patient has ahistory of poorly controlled diabetes and was maintained oninsulin as an inpatient with sliding scale coverage. history ofhypothyroidism , on levoxyl. tsh within normal limits. id: noacute issues. the patient was treated for asymptomaticbacteriuria secondary to possible permanent pacemaker placement.she developed itchiness , which is likely secondary to thebactrim. provided supportive care , the patient should avoidbactrim in the future secondary to intolerance. no seriousreactions were observed. psychiatric: the patient has a historyof depression. she was continued on home medications. fen: thepatient was maintained on a cardiac diet with sodium and volumerestriction , k mag scales. nutrition was consulted.dermatologic: the patient has a history of hsv , status postacyclovir treatment. no evidence of further infection. thepatient had pretibial erythema , which derm was consulted for ,which they felt was consistent with venous stasis. she improvedwith steroid cream and compression. the patient was prophylaxedwith protonix and heparin. the patient was instructed to followup with cardiology , weigh herself daily with careful notice toweight gain reporting to the physician and to returne to the edwith worsening shortness of breath or chest pain. the patientwas instructed to follow a fluid restricted , low-fat ,low-cholesterol diet as well as a restricted sodium diet. shewill follow up with her pcp dr. kuhnke at 364-329-0928 on2/18/06 at 2:45. dr. yatsko at 724-105-6354 on 5/11/06 at 3:45.inr will be drawn on 7/13/06 with followup inrs to be drawnevery five days. inrs will be followed by pcp.discharge medications: include aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily ,albuterol 2 puffs inhaled q.i.d. p.r.n. wheezing , colace 100 mgp.o. b.i.d. , fluoxetine 20 mg p.o. daily , lasix 80 mg p.o. daily ,insulin nph 35 units subq b.i.d. , regular insulin sliding scale ,the patient will not be discharged on the last sliding scale med ,levothyroxine 88 mcg p.o. daily , nortriptyline 50 mg p.o. atbedtime , oxycodone 5-10 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. pain , spironolactone25 mg daily , coumadin 5 mg daily , simvastatin 20 mg daily ,toprol-xl 25 mg daily , ambien 5 mg p.o. daily p.r.n. insomnia ,diovan 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. , plavix 75 mg daily , advair 500/50 onepuff inhaled b.i.d. , esomeprazole 20 mg p.o. daily and zetia 10mg p.o. daily.escription document: 8-2574444 hffocusdictated by: yochim , brendonattending: mcravin , pablo joaquindictation id 9963814d: 7/13/06t: 7/13/06[report_end]