014604196 | wch | 66153194 | | 1254797 | 10/4/2006 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/14/2006 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: benzee , ivory mddate of admission: 10/14/2006date of interim dictation: 1/7/2006primary diagnosis: left hip fracture , right distal tibiafracture status post fall.history of present illness: the patient is a 52-year-old malewith multiple medical problems including coronary artery diseasestatus post non st segment elevation mi in august 2005 , status postptca stenting in october of 2006 , history of renal transplantationstatus post failure , now with end-stage renal disease onhemodialysis , diabetes mellitus , and hypertension who presents on10/14/2006 with a left intertrochanteric hip fracture after fall.he states hewas in his usual state ofhealth until the day of presentation when he was walking outsidehis house on the deck to take care of his dog and tripped andfell on to his left side. he denied any preceding symptoms ,shortness of breath , loss of consciousness , or dizziness.imaging upon presentation revealed a comminuted intertrochantericfracture of the left femur as well as a refracture and worseningalignment of a previously nonhealing distal tib-fib fracture ofthe right lower extremity.past medical history: coronary artery disease status post non-stsegment elevation mi in august 2005 , s/p stentingin august 2005 , most recent cath in october 2006. peripheralvascular disease , renal transplant for type 1 diabetes ,living-related renal transplant in 1991 status post rejection andfailure in january 2005 , now end-stage renal disease onhemodialysis. his dialysis is tuesday , thursday , saturday. hehas had diabetes mellitus type 1 since age 6. he also has ahistory of hypertension , hypothyroidism , pea arrest in october2006 in the setting of hypercalcemia , peripheral neuropathy , andright lower extremity open reduction and internal fixation inoctober 2006 for nonunion of a tibial fracture.home medications: aspirin 325 mg daily , phoslo 1334 t.i.d. ,enalapril 20 mg daily , gemfibrozil 600 mg b.i.d. , dilaudid p.r.n.pain , nph 30 in the morning and 32 in the p.m. , levothyroxine 50mcg daily , prednisone 10 mg q.a.m. , neurontin 300 mg b.i.d. ,imdur 60 mg daily , lipitor 80 mg daily , nephrocaps one daily ,plavix 75 mg daily , caltrate plus vitamin d one tab nightly ,sevelamer 800 mg b.i.d. , omeprazole 20 mg daily , novolog slidingscale as per patient , and toprol 50 mg daily.allergies: penicillin which causes a rash.social history: the patient lives with his wife. former smoker.physical examination: upon presentation , the patient's vitalsigns 97.7 , 73 , 135/68 , 12 , and 97% on 2 l. generally , he is in noapparent distress , alert and oriented x3. cardiovascular:regular rate and rhythm with a 2/6 systolic murmur at the leftupper sternal border. no s3 or s4. lungs are clear toauscultation anteriorly. his abdomen is nontender andnondistended. the patient is obese. the patient's extremitiesshow 1+ peripheral edema , right greater than left. right lowerextremity is bandaged. he has 1+ dps bilaterally.neurologically , he is grossly intact.his ekg upon presentation showed normal sinus rhythm at 73 ,normal axis , normal intervals , no st- or t-wave changes butisolated t-wave inversions in leads iii , which are new from7/14/2006 with peak t waves , qrs of normal duration. his k atthat time was 6.7. creatinine was 6.1. his white count on10/14/2006 was 13.1 , 43.9 , and 309 , 000 , to complete a cbc. inrwas 1.the impression at the time of presentation was a 53-year-oldmale with multiple medical problems including coronary arterydisease status post recent revascularization in october of 2006 ,peripheral vascular disease , renal transplant status postfailure , now on hemodialysis , diabetes , hypertension , andhypothyroidism who presented with a left hip fracture and worsening of aprevious r distal tib/fib fx.hospital course: he was admitted to the orthopedic surgeryservice and a preoperative evaluation was begun. on hospital day three ,he suffered a non-st segment elevation mi requiring urgent cardiaccatheterization. his ef at that time was noted to be 65%. left heartcatheterization revealed a single-vessel coronary artery disease involving hisleft circumflex with evidence of restenosis , and an angioplasty wasperformed. the patient was transferred back to the floor hemodynamicallystable. he continued to undergo dialysis on his tuesday , thursday ,saturday schedule from the day of his catheterization until 10/16/2006 when hewas taken to the operating room for open reduction and internal fixation ofhis left intertrochanteric hip fracture. for a complete summary ,please refer to the operative note. his right tibial injury wasmanaged conservatively initially with splinting. on 10/20/2006 ,the patient returned to the operating room where he underwent arevision of his fixation of his right lower extremity withremoval of deep hardware and intramedullary rodding of his distaltibia fracture. a vac was placed across the lower part of theincision. on 9/17/2006 , the vac was changed on the floor andplaced on suction and was noted to be oozing steadily with aeventual ebl of about 1 l within several hours. his systolic bloodpressures also droped into the 80s to 90s along with symptoms ofdiaphoresis. mr. legacy was subsequently transferred to the 7d icu formanagement of significant bleeding from his open wound , relative tachycardia ,hypotension , and diaphoresis , concerning for hemorrhage shock.the patient at that time was on plavix , aspirin , and lovenox , andit was thought that this combination certainly led to his oozingduring the vac change. the patient was transfused several unitsof blood after hematocrit dropped from 28 to 19 on the day oftransfer. the patient was transferred back to the floor instable condition within several days. the patient continued to receivedialysis tuesday , thursday , and saturday during this time as theorthopedic surgery service continued wet-to-dry dressings of hisright lower extremity wound , which was open inferiorly. on1/6/2006 , the aland memorial cardiology service was againconsulted regarding the safety of discontinuing the patient'splavix , aspirin , and/or lovenox prior to taking the patient backto the operating room. the service determined that his plavixcould be stopped safely prior to surgery but should be startedpostoperatively. the patient was continued with daily wet-to-drydressings until 10/10/2006 when he was taken back to theoperating room for medialization of his right ankle. his plavixhad been discontinued on 6/18/2006 and was restarted onpostoperative day one. the patient continued to receive dialysisduring this time , which he tolerated well. his subcutaneousheparin was restarted on 9/25/2006 .  however , the patient beganto ooze from his injection sites and his right lower extremitywound and the subcutaneous heparin was subsequently discontinued.thus , the patient is maintained at the current time on aspirinand plavix.currently , by systems:neurologic: the patient is receiving 30 mg of methadone q.8h.for pain as well as dilaudid 0.2 to 0.4 q.3h. p.r.n. andoxycodone 20 mg p.o. q.2h. p.r.n. pain. he is alert and orientedx3 and is neurologically intact with the exception of decreasedsensation in his right lower extremity. cardiovascularly , he hasbeen hemodynamically stable although his systolics often in the90s after dialysis. he is being continued on an aspirin 325 mgas well as lopressor 12.5 mg q.i.d. , imdur 60 mg daily , andplavix 75 mg daily. he has prolonged qt ranging from 400 to 500and his frequent pvcs noted on telemetry. however , he has beenasymptomatic since his episode of hypotension requiringreadmission to the icu.respiratory: the patient has been stable on room air sincetransfer from the icu and denies any pulmonary symptoms. gi , thepatient has had decreased p.o. intake and nutrition consultationwas ordered. nutrition has been following the patientrecommending frappes and boost , which the patient has been takingminimally. the patient has been having bowel movements and hisabdomen is soft , nontender , and nondistended.gu: the patient is followed by the renal service for dialysis ontuesday , thursday , and saturday. currently on phoslo 667 mg p.o.t.i.d. , nephrocaps , caltrate. his sevelamer iscurrently held. the patient makes minimal amounts of urine inaddition to his dialysis sessions.id: the patient has been maintained on vancomycin 1 g tuesday ,thursday , saturday after hemodialysis. he has been afebrile forthe past week. his current white count is 8.6. hematologically ,as mentioned previously , the patient presented on aspirin andplavix and lovenox was added. however , due to his episode ofbleeding requiring icu admission , there was concern regardingover-anticoagulation. however , the three agents were continuedand the patient stabilized. per the cardiology service , plavixwas discontinued approximately one week preoperatively andrestarted one day postoperatively. subcutaneous heparin wasadded back to his regimen on postop day two. however , he beganoozing from his injection sites in his right lower extremity andthus the subcutaneous heparin was discontinued. the patient'shematocrit is currently 31.6.endocrine wise , the patient has been continued on his home doseof prednisone which is 10 mg daily , he has also been continued onnph and novolog which have been titrated per recommendations fromthe diabetes service. his wound on the right lower extremity isgranulating appropriately although there are areas of ecchymosisand skin thickening and darkening around the incision. thepatient is currently receiving b.i.d. wet-to-dry dressings of theright lower extremity. his right hip surgery incisions areclean , dry , and intact with no signs of infection.escription document: 7-2787555 hffocusdictated by: exton , rickyattending: beckmeyer , murraydictation id 5723597d: 1/23/06t: 1/23/06