record #185795426695091 | rmicgh | 21526569 | | 525973 | 4/14/1999 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 8/16/1999 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/20/1999principal diagnosis: 1. stroke.secondary diagnosis: 2. coronary artery disease.3. hypertension. 4. hypercholesterolemia.5. type ii diabetes mellitus. 6. gastroesophageal refluxdisease.principal procedures and operations: the patient had a head mri ,an echocardiogram , and headct scan.history of present illness: this 61-year-old male was in his usualstate of health until the morning ofadmission when he woke up with speech difficulty noticed by hiswife. the patient was noted to make paraphasic errors. inaddition , there was a question of a right facial droop. thepatient presented to the emergency room. there were no otherneurologic symptoms.physical examination: physical examination on admission revealedpulse 78 , temperature 98.8 , and bloodpressure 160/78. the patient was in no apparent distress. thehead and neck examination was unremarkable. the neck was supple.the thyroid gland was not enlarged. the lungs were clear. therewas a normal s1 and s2 , with no murmurs , gallops or rubs. theabdomen was soft and non-tender. there was no peripheral edema.the patient was alert and oriented to his name and to place. thepatient had difficulty giving the exact date and month. thepatient was unable to register three objects properly. thepatient's speech was non-fluent with impaired naming. repetitionwas also affected. there was right left confusion , severeacalculia , as well as poor reading and writing. the patient had noneglect or apraxia. the patient was able to copy a complicatedfigure without problems. the cranial nerves were intact , exceptfor a mild right upper motor neuron facial palsy. there was nopronator drift and the strength was 5/5 in all four extremities.sensation was intact to primal modalities. the reflexes were 2+and symmetric with downgoing toes. the patient had normal gait.laboratory data: laboratory data on admission revealed serumelectrolytes to be normal , except for a potassiumof 5.3. the glucose was 168. the white count was 7.8 , hematocrit38.8 , and platelets 223. a pt and ptt were normal. a head ct scanshowed a subtle hyperdensity in the left frontal region. this waslater confirmed by mri. the patient had carotid ultrasounds , whichshowed a 60% stenosis of the left internal carotid artery. theright internal carotid was stenosed to 25%.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the hospital with adiagnosis of probable embolic stroke. an mrishowed a wedge shaped frontal lobe infarct. clinically , thepatient's speech improved and he regained fluency within the next24 hours. the patient's naming was relatively preserved.comprehension was intact for simple commands. however , the patientcontinued to have right left indiscrimination , acalculia , as wellas a defect in reading and writing. the patient was initiallyunable to add two plus two , but by the end of the hospitalization ,he was able to add nine plus six. however , the patient'scalculation never returned to his baseline function. the patienthad an echocardiogram , which revealed an ejection fraction of 60% ,with no significant valvular disease. there was no thrombus notedin the left atrium. the patient was started on intravenous heparinon admission , and was then converted to oral coumadin. the patientruled out for myocardial infarction on admission. the patient waskept on a cardiac monitor with no cardiac events noted. thepatient was seen by the neurobehavioral service because of hisaphasia.medications on discharge: at the time of discharge , the patientwas on allopurinol , atenolol ,colchicine , prilosec , lipitor , and coumadin. follow-up: thepatient was instructed to follow-up with dr. glaser of theneurology service at cloud medical center .dictated by: faustino ennen , m.d. ox08attending: ralph a. michienzi , m.d. ax56bz547/2315batch: 58843 index no. zqwtxr8v50 d: 8/27/99t: 5/30/99cc: 1. israel t. devos , m.d. bk3uz5[report_end]