record #193097459567785 | fh | 08087955 | | 197550 | 5/23/1998 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 4/2/1998 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/4/1998principal diagnosis: 1. severe pancreatic exocrine andendocrine insufficiency.problem list:1. severe acute pancreatitis2. new onset insulin dependent diabetes mellitus.3. hyperglycemic , hyperosmolar , nonketotic acidosis ( nowresolved ).4. acute renal failure. ( now resolved ).5. rhabdomyolysis. ( now resolved ).6. severe alcoholism.7. congenital heart block , status post pacemaker placement in1980.8. coronary artery disease , status post silent imi in 1988.9. history of dilated cardiomyopathy , congestive heart failurelast echo performed on 20 of september with an estimated ejectionfraction of 50%.10. hypertension.11. hypercholesterolemia.12. status post left nephrectomy secondary to nephrolithiasis.13. history of gerd.14. history of spinal stenosis , lower extremity pain and sciatica.15. peripheral vascular disease with claudication.16. status post appendectomy.17. history of recurrent urinary tract infections.18. history of medical nonadherence.history of present illness: the patient is a 60 year old african-american gentleman with a complicatedmedical history including severe alcoholism and coronary arterydisease , congestive heart failure who has at baseline had shortnessof breath , dyspnea on exertion and at times paroxysmal nocturnaldyspnea also orthopnea. he has a history of medical nonadherence ,noncompliance. the patient presented four days prior to admissionon 23 of august to his primary care physician dr. dubrey with a coughchills , but no fever , myalgias , pleuritic chest pain and weightloss of 9 lb , from 167 to 158 in three months with increasedparoxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. the patient had not been taking hiscongestive heart failure/cardiac medications for at least one week.a chest x-ray at that time was negative for pneumonia but wassuggestive congestive heart failure. he was also diagnosed with aprobably uri. his congestive heart failure medications wererefilled. a ppd was placed at that time. the patient was notgetting antibiotics.the patient developed progressive malaise , anorexia , was unable toget out of bed , poor p.o. he denied any increased alcohol abuse atthat time. there was no abdominal pain per the patient'sgirlfriend but there were complaints that the patient's mentalstatus was worsening. he was more lethargic and was found mumblingby his girlfriend with increased shortness of breath and emts werecalled who found the patient to be somewhat somnolent but arousablewith a blood glucose of 483 , blood pressure 110 /palp. he wastransferred to the tabell aleretsentla medical center emergency room.the emergency room he was alert and oriented times two withtemperature of 89 rectally , blood pressure 120/68 , respiratory rate28 , o2 of 100% on 100% face mask. an arterial blood gases ph was7.13 , po2 326 , pco2 28. acetest was positive. betahydroxybutyrate of 1.66. serum glucose was negative at 1800 with an aniongap of 27 , serum sodium 129 , serum potassium 7.6 , bun 178 and acreatinine 7.5. the patient was treated with one liter of normalsaline iv over five hours , 20 units of iv insulin two amps ofbicarb , 30 grams of kayexalate , one amp of calcium gluconate ,solu-cortef 100 mg , ceftriaxone two grams iv. the patient's mentalstatus markedly improved after the hydration. the patient was thentransferred to the medical intensive care unit for treatmentevaluation.past medical history: please see problem list above. also ofnote , the patient has a history of severealcoholism , denies any preadmission alcohol binges at that time;but , later admitted to drinking of one to two gallons of gin andvodka at a time with his friends and also drinking many beers. atbaseline , the patient has some shortness of breath , dyspnea onexertion , orthopnea and at times paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. hislast echo previously the one done on this admission was in 1/10which showed an ejection fraction of approximately 30% withanteroseptal hk , posterior lateral hk , inferior ak , 1+ mr and arand an ett mibi in 1 of january showed imi , ischemia. however , an echorepeated during this admission showed an approximate ejectionfraction of 50% with inferior and septal hk only and mild aorticinsufficiency and mitral regurgitation .allergies: no known drug allergies.medications: admission- enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. ,lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d. , sl nitroglycerin p.r.n. , imdur60 mg p.o. q.d. , lisinopril 20 mg , naprosyn 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.p.r.n. , digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q.d.social history: the patient as noted above has a history ofsevere alcoholism and has been drinking at least toa month prior to his presentation. he has a history of one pack oftobacco smoking per day times 30 years. the patient lives with hisgirlfriend and "step-daughter" in montesonnixcape broke sonpofamily history: positive for coronary artery disease and alsopositive for diabetes mellitus in his sister andmother and his mother also "cancer".physical examination: vital signs - temperature 94.0 , pulse 78 ,and regular , blood pressure 100/66 , o2 is100% saturation on 100% facemask. respiratory rate 28. ingeneral , the patient was responsive to voice and oriented toen hospital , and said 1997. head , eyes , ears ,nose and throat exam showed that he was anicteric. extraocularmovements are intact. pupils are equal , round , reactive to light , 2mm. oropharynx was dry. there was no jugular venous distentionand low lymphadenopathy. the neck was supple. lungs - had fewbibasilar crackles , greater on the right. cardiovascular - regularrate and rhythm with positive ectopy , no murmur , regurg or gallop.his abdomen was soft , diffusely tender , mildly distended withpositive bowel sounds with no liver edge palpated. he was hemenegative in the emergency room with no rebound. extremities -trace edema bilaterally and were somewhat cool. his skin had nopetechiae , no rash and no splinters. neurological - he was able tomove all extremities. his reflexes were 2 in the upper and lowerextremities except for the left ankle which was 1 and his rightankle was 0. his left toe was downgoing. his right toe wasequivocal.laboratory data: significant for a wbc of 11 , hematocrit wasnormal at 43 , platelets 160. significant forbandemia of 14 , 81 polys , inr 1.3 , sma-7 was significant for aserum sodium of 129 , potassium 7.6 , chloride of 91 , bicarb of 11 ,bun of 178 creatinine of 7.5 , glucose of 1800. his ck was 126 ,troponion-i was 0. lipase was 22 , 610 , amylase was 2840. liverfunction tests were within normal limits , alt of 11 , ast of 10 , ldh174 , alk phos of 11 , t-bili of 0.4 , albumin of 3.5 , calcium 9.3.phos was elevated at 12.8 , magnesium was elevated at 5.2. ua was19.5.acetest was positive. a betahydroxybutyrate was 1.66. digoxinlevel was 0.8 , tox screen was negative. ua - had 0-1 wbcs , sg of1.023.ekg showed ventricular pacing at a rate of 77.chest x-ray showed no pulmonary edema or infiltrates or effusions.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the medical intensivecare unit for further treatment evaluation of hissevere metabolic abnormalities. he also by labs he had asignificant severe pancreatitis and was felt to be either a dka orhhnka. an endocrine consult was obtained and they felt that thepatient was likely not in dka as the patient's level ofbetahydroxybutyrate of 1.66 was not enought to explain thepatient's gap or all his metabolic disturbances. the endocrineservice that more likely the patient had hyperglycemic ,hyperosmolar , nonketotic acidosis and also severe pancreatitis.initial screens for the cause of pancreatitis were negativeincluding stones. the patient has significant alcohol history andhas been drinking alcohol which is the most likely cause of hissevere pancreatic insufficiency. the patient was aggressivelyhydrated with iv fluids and his metabolic abnormalities began tocorrect. he was also noted by labs to be in acute renal failureand a renal consult was obtained. the patient's nonoliguric renalfailure was in the setting of severe dehydration secondary tohyperosmolar state and ace inhibitors were felt most likely due toatn. a renal ultrasound performed on 12 of january showed no evidence ofgallstones or biliary duct dilatation.an abdominal ct performed on 20 of february showed grade i pancreatitis withno evidence of a pseudocyst. the patient's clinical course wascomplicated by rhabdomyolysis which was felt to be due to ahypophosphatemic state , but this was not completely clear as thepatient's cks began to rise while the patient's phosphate was stillsecondary to the acute renal failure. the patient's cks peakedaround 10 , 000 and then began to fall steadily and the patient'srenal function with continued hydration improved steadily as hiscreatinine and bun returned to normal. however , in the night of20 of september the patient's abdominal pain worsened and there was aquestion of peritoneal signs which prompted an emergent exploratorylaparotomy to rule out abdominal ischemia. however , the findingswere not consistent with ischemic bowel , but only severepancreatitis was noted. on 13 of september and 20 of september the patient did very wellpostoperatively back in the medical intensive care unit. he wasstarted on tpn and with a slow wean of his of dextrose , his bloodsugars normalized. on 20 of september the patient's renal function had alsonormalized. the patient by 24 of november had marked decreased abdominalpain , normalized electrolytes and his renal function was at hisbaseline with a creatinine of 1.0.the patient was transferred out of the medical intensive care unitto our service on 21 of april on tpn and the following medications:1. digoxin 0.375 mg q.d.2. carafate one gram b.i.d.3. albuterol two puffs t.i.d.4. aspirin 325 mg q.d.he is also on tpn , but was being advanced to a clear liquid dietand seemed to be tolerating it well. he also continued to requirea large amount of insulin through his tpn and also through hissliding scale. the patient did well and was able to tolerate aclear liquid diet and was advanced in the next two days to a soft ,solid diet with very low fat.i will dictate the rest of the patient's events , assessment andplan by problem list as follows:1. gi:i. severe pancreatitis: the patient was able to be advancedto a soft solid diet for the past few days. she has abdominal painwhich had almost resolved and then resumed and the patientdeveloped a watery diarrhea. it was felt that this could be due topancreatic insufficiency versus c. diff colitis and therefore c.diff samples were sent and the patient was presumptively started onflagyl and pancrease 12 , 000 units t.i.d. 1/2 hour before meals.the patient's abdominal pain and diarrhea persisted. this promptedus to make the patient n.p.o. once more and another abdominal ctwas obtained. an abdominal ct performed on 9 of august showedprogression of pancreatitis with increase inflammatory changes.there was no necrosis or pseudocyst formation noted. also notedwas some significant small bowel dilatation without any evidence ofobstruction. therefore , the patient was continued to be keptn.p.o. and tpn was restarted on 9 of january .  the patient has toleratedthis well and at this time has no longer had any abdominal paineither subjectively or on exam. it does occasionally have mild lowback pain which is thought to actually be due to his pancreatitisas opposed to any musculoskeletal cause.ii. diarrhea: the patient also had diarrhea as noted above.he has been worked up extensively. his diarrhea has now resolved.he was c. diff negative , but was treated presumptively with flagylfor seven days. all stool studies including shigella , salmonella ,campylobacter , ova and parasites , microsporidia have been negative.his stool has been sent for quantitative fecal fast which is stillpending on discharge. he has been repeatedly guaiac negative. asnoted above his diarrhea has resolved.iii. resolved heme positivity: the patient earlier in thecourse of his intensive care unit stay had some stools that wereheme positive. they were thought to be due to gastritis. he hasnow been on initially , after that has been on prilosec and nowchanged over to ranitidine in his tpn and has had multiple guaiacnegative stools in the past ten days.iv. small perianal ulcer: the patient was noted to have asmall perianal ulcer. it is felt to be secondary to pressure fromlying in bed and also secondary to his multiple episodes ofdiarrhea which had been going on for days. it is felt that thisshould resolve. if it does not , it is suggested that the ulcer beswabbed and sent for hsv.2. endocrine:i. insulin dependent diabetes mellitus: due to the patient'spancreatic insufficiency , the patient will be a life long diabetic.the patient has been followed by the endocrine service and is nowreceiving 45 units of insulin per liter through his tpn. he isalso on a sliding scale regular regimen with finger stick q6h. itis felt that this should be a relatively stable regimen for him atthis time. as the patient is weaned off his tpn and starts to takep.o. again , he should be switched over to nph b.i.d. with regularinsulin checks on a sliding scale before his meals. the patientalso has a follow-up appointment with the diabetes clinic in threeweeks as noted below.3. cardiovascular: the patient does have a history of congestiveheart failure and has had mild bi-basilar crackles throughout hisstay here. this has not limited him in any way. he has had a goodoxygen saturations. the patient continues to take 40 mg of lasixp.o. q.d. on the day of discharge , he received an extra 20 mg ivas he has been i&amp;os positive for the last few days and we noted aslightly more crackles on his exam. of note , the patient has along history of having paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea but had beendoing relatively well here. his current medical regimen includesisordil 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. , captopril 6.25 mg p.o. t.i.d. both ofthese can be titrated upwards as his blood pressure allows. he hashad some labile blood pressures ranging anywhere from the systolicsof 80s to 130s while in the hospital and he has never beensymptomatic and even when he has been , he has had blood pressuresin the 80s and has tolerated this well. he is also maintained ondigoxin 0.375 mg q.d. he is also taking aspirin for his cardiacregimen.4. pulmonary: the patient had good o2 saturations and usuallyranging from 95 to 97% on room air and has had no pulmonaryproblems. he has had bibasilar crackles on exam which is felt tobe due to some mild congestive heart failure for which he is takinglasix. he may need some extra doses of lasix per your directionsthe next few days.5. heme: the patient's hematocrit has been low in the high 20s ontwo occasions. in both cases always drifting down slowly thoughtto be due to delutional effects plus repeat a phlebotomy. he hasbeen transfused a total of three units while he has been in thehospital here. otherwise is hematocrit has been stable formultiple days so has his platelets. also of note the patient hasbeen heme negative from below for more than ten days.6. renal: the patient says his baseline creatinine in which hisacute renal failure has resolved.7. rhabdomyolysis: this has also resolved with the patient's ckshaving normalized over a week ago.8. infectious disease: the patient has remained afebrile , normalwhite count for many days. while here he was also presumptivelytreated for c. diff which was actually found to be negative on hisstool examinations with no fecal leukocytes. the patient'stemperature curve should be followed given that the patientcontinues to have pancreatitis and is at risk for developing aphlegmon.assessment and plan:1. severe pancreatitis: the patient continues to be on tpn. apicc line has been placed and a triple lumen catheter will beremoved prior to transfer of the patient. it is our feeling thatthe patient should remain on tpn for the next two days and then asper your directions , the patient could be slowly advanced on a p.o.diet as tolerated. we feel that the patient deserves another trialto see if he can tolerate p.o. before any long term decisions ismade regarding his nutrition and perhaps placement of a j-tube forlong term feeding. the patient's amylase and lipase on the day ofdischarge are 47 for amylase and 166 for lipase. these valuescontinue to remain low even when the patient was having abdominalpain. this is felt to be due to a relatively burnt out pancreas.a gi consult was also obtained which agrees with this assessment.it is felt that when the patient does start taking p.o. again heshould have pancreas at least 8 to 12 , 000 units t.i.d. half hourbefore meals due to his pancreatic exocrine insufficiency. alsothe patient should be followed clinically very closely includinghis white count , fever curve and his abdominal exam for any signsand symptoms of development of an infection or phlegmon orpseudocyst because of his pancreatitis. the patient's tpn shouldbe continued as noted below.2. endocrine insufficiency: the patient , as noted above , willrequire insulin , both through is tpn and his fingersticks should bechecked every six hours. as noted when the patient is switchedover to a p.o. regimen , we suggest per endocrine recommendationsthat nph be given b.i.d. and the patient should be covered with aninsulin sliding scale at bedtime.the patient is being transferred to redist nalereamer memorial hospital on25 of august in good condition. the patient today denies any abdominalpain , nausea or vomiting , but occasionally continues to have mildback pain. his diarrhea has resolved. he is afebrile with a bloodpressure of 120/70 , pulse is 69 , respiratory rate 16 , sat 97 onroom air , with a weight of 69.0 kg. he is comfortable and has hadbibasilar crackles of 1/4 the way up. his abdomen is soft ,nontender , nondistended with positive bowel sounds. hisextremities are without edema.on the day of discharge his white count is 8.8 , hematocrit is 36 ,addplatelets of 348. his sma-7 was within normal limits with acreatinine of 0.6. his amylase is 47 and his lipase is 160.disposition: the patient is being discharged in good conditionto lakesfic hospital medical center .  his primary carephysician dr. littmann is aware of the patient's discharge and willcontinue to follow with his care. the patient also has anappointment with dr. sanislo in the diabetes clinic at longa ent no on 1 of may at 11 a.m.discharge medications:1. aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.2. albuterol inhalers two puffs q.i.d.3. digoxin 0.375 mg q.d.4. lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d.5. captopril 6.25 mg p.o. t.i.d.6. isordil 10 mg p.o. t.i.d.7. magnesium and potassium sliding scale through ivs while beinghere.diet: the patient should remain n.p.o. for the next two days. histpn orders upon discharge should be as follows: he willhave a total of 2 liters per day at a rate of 83.3 ml per hourconstantly. he has a modified central solution of 5% aminoacid ,18% dextrose , 400 lipids k-calories per day. his aminoacid shouldbe through a novamine solution. his acetate is 0% his sodiumshould be 30 meq per liter , magnesium should be 10 meq per liter ,potassium 50 meq per liter , phosphate 10 millimoles per liter.trace elements 1 millimoles per day , vitamin k 10 mg q. mondays ,mvi 10 ml per day , calcium 94 mg per liter. his insulin in the tpnshould be 45 units per liter of tpn. there should also beranitidine 150 mg per liter of tpn. also in addition to this heshould have 10 mg of thiamine every tuesday , thursday , saturday andsunday , 800 mcg of folate every monday , wednesday and friday andalso 100 mcg of b-12 q. thursday through his tpn.condition on discharge: good.operations during admission: exploratory laparotomy performed on20 of september without complications.dictated by: austin amendola , m.d. bi80attending: fritz e. bromberg , m.d. sf41  ed166/6793batch: 9436 index no. jgczy10rm7 d: 0/7/98t: 0/7/98cc: 1. bassash hospital and medical center[report_end]