record #198794709289495 | tcmrh | 94386759 | | 5801602 | 6/5/2005 12:00:00 am | coronary artery disease | signed | dis | admission date: 9/22/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/13/2005attending: mckenzie , willy m.d.principal diagnoses:coronary artery disease and aortic stenosis.history of present illness:a 78-year-old gentleman with a history of hypertension ,non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and hyperlipidemia whohas had two prior mis with a history of peripheral vasculardisease , coronary artery disease , hypertension , and diabetes whopresented to an outside hospital on 11/16/05 with shortness ofbreath , cough , minimal chest pain , left-sided arm uneasiness ,nausea , and a single episode of vomiting. his symptoms wererelieved with sublingual nitroglycerin and lasix. cardiacenzymes were noted to be mildly elevated. an echocardiogram wasobtained which estimated his ejection fraction at 20%-25% andnoted aortic stenosis , mitral regurgitation , and a left-to-rightshunt. the patient underwent cardiac catheterization on11/28/05 , which revealed triple vessel disease. he istransferred to tin rogers medical center on 11/28/05 forsurgical evaluation.past medical history:coronary artery disease status post mi x2 , hypertension ,peripheral vascular disease , diabetes mellitus on oral agent ,hypercholesterolemia , copd on bronchodilators , ischemiccardiomyopathy , and peptic ulcer disease , and gerd.past surgical history:includes a left carotid endarterectomy done in 1997 and turp.family history:positive for coronary artery disease.social history:positive for smoking.allergies:aspirin causing gastritis , keflex causing hives , and bactrimcausing hives.medications on admission:include toprol 75 mg p.o. daily , fosinopril 20 mg p.o. daily ,digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. daily , plavix 75 mg p.o. daily , lasix 40 mgp.o. daily , albuterol , ipratropium two puff p.r.n. , atorvastatin40 mg p.o. daily , protonix 40 mg p.o. daily , glyburide 5 mg p.o.q.a.m. , and avandia 8 mg p.o. daily. the patient is also onheparin at 500 units an hour on transfer from outside hospital.physical examination:5 feet 5 inches tall , 75 kilos , temperature 98.2 , heart rate 60 ,blood pressure 110/60 in right arm , 106/54 in left arm. heent:perrl. oropharynx benign. the patient has upper dentures thelower teeth. he has no carotid bruits but his murmur , but hisradiates to his carotids bilaterally. he has a well-healedincision on his left neck. chest: without incisions.cardiovascular: regular rate and rhythm , 3/6 systolic murmur.respiratory: breath sounds are clear bilaterally. abdomen: noincisions , soft , no masses. there is mild ecchymosis on the leftside of his abdomen. extremities: mild ankle edema bilaterally ,mild brown discoloration and left lower leg and ankle , bilaterallower leg varicosities , mild on right , more prominent on theleft , 2+ pedal pulses bilaterally , 2+ radial pulses bilaterally.allen's test in the left upper extremity is normal by pulseoximeter in the right upper extremity is abnormal by pulseoximeter. neuro: alert and oriented , grossly nonfocal exam.the patient is hard of hearing and uses a hearing aid.laboratory data:preoperative chemistries include sodium of 138 , potassium of 5 ,bun of 24 , creatinine of 1 , and glucose is 176. glycosylatedhemoglobin is 5.9. white blood cell count is 6.4 , hematocrit 39 ,inr is 1.1. ptt is 52. cardiac catheterization data from11/28/05 performed at outside hospital includes the following:30% mid left main , 90% mid lad , 100% proximal circumflex , 100%proximal rca , 100% mid rca and a right dominant circulation.there is moderate disease at the origin of the diagonal branch.the circumflex is totally occluded proximally and has thereantegrade collaterals which opacify a large part bifurcatingobtuse marginal branch. rca is occluded , antegrade collateralsto acute marginal , distal rca and pda collateralized from theleft circulation. lima is widely patent. ventriculogram notesinferobasal akinesis , apical akinesis , and anterior hypokinesis ,1-2+ mr. hemodynamics pcw is 10 and cardiac index is 2.1.echocardiogram from 11/16/05 estimates ejection fraction at 20% ,notes aortic stenosis with a mean gradient of 17 mmhg and a peakgradient of 32 mmhg , calculated valve area of 1 cm2. there istrivial aortic insufficiency , moderate mitral insufficiency ,trivial pulmonic insufficiency , and diffuse hypokinesis mostnotably involving the inferoposterior and anteroseptal walls.there is a dilated left atrium , cvp of 20 , small left-to-rightshunt consistent with ostium secundum asd. ekg normal sinusrhythm at 80 , left bundle-branch block with inverted ts in i ,avl , v5 and v6 , sinus arrhythmia with a first-degree block.chest x-ray is within normal limits.hospital course:the patient was taken to the operating room on 8/0/05 andunderwent aortic valve replacement with a 23 mmcarpentier-edwards magna valve. he also underwent cabg x4 with asequential vein graft connecting the aorta to d1 and then om1.he also has a graft , lima to the lad and another vein graftconnecting the aorta to the pda. he also underwent a pfoclosure. he was taken to the intensive care unit followingsurgery in stable condition. postoperatively , the patient wasnoted to have a hematocrit of 26 and was noted to be guaiacnegative. he was transferred to the step-down unit onpostoperative day 3.summary by system as follow:neurologically: no issues , pain control. cardiovascular: thepatient was restarted on beta-blocker and an ace inhibitor. hewas followed by his cardiology perioperatively. respiratory:blake drain discontinued on postoperative day 3. post-pull chestx-ray was noted to be stable. gi: no issues. renal: thepatient was maintained on lasix with a good urine output tosupport diuresis. endocrine: no issues , the patient wasfollowed by the diabetes management service perioperatively forhyperglycemia. hematology: the patient was transfused onpostoperative day 3 for a hematocrit of 25. the patient was alsorestarted on plavix as patient has an aspirin allergy. onpostoperative day 4 , the patient was weaned off oxygen andsaturated well on room air. he also maintained sinus rhythm forthe duration of his hospital stay. the patient began ambulating ,it was noted that he was unsteady on his feet and walks withassistance , physical therapy consult was obtained for evaluationas well as rehabilitation screening. later that day , the patientnoted visual disturbances which included blurriness and wavyvision that lasted two and a half hours. a ct angio scan wasdone and was found to be negative for acute pathology. neurologyteam was consulted and a stat ct angio of the patient's head wasobtained. this study revealed no high-grade stenoses and it wasrecommended that an ophthalmology consult be obtained. theophthalmologist examined the patient and also found no indicationof pathology. the patient had no further visual disturbances forthe remainder during his hospital stay. the patient was noted tohave a brief period of rate controlled atrial fibrillation onpostoperative day #6 , he converted back to sinus rhythm on hisincreased beta-blocker dose. he remained in sinus rhythm for theremainder of his postoperative stay and continued to work withphysical therapy and improved daily. the patient waited threedays for an available rehabilitation bed.disposition:he is discharged to rehab in good condition on postoperative day11.discharge medications:discharged on the following medications: tylenol 650 mg p.o.q.6h. p.r.n. pain , colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. constipation ,lasix 20 mg p.o. daily , potassium slow release 10 meq p.o. daily ,glipizide 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , ibuprofen 600 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n.pain , lisinopril 2.5 mg p.o. daily , plavix 75 mg p.o. daily ,combivent two puffs inhaled b.i.d. , glucophage-xr 500 mgfollowing breakfast and glucophage-xr 500 mg following supper ,zetia 10 mg p.o. daily , protonix 40 mg p.o. daily , atorvastatin40 mg p.o. daily , and toprol-xl 100 mg p.o. daily.follow-up appointments:the patient is to have follow-up appointments with hiscardiologist , dr. rouff , in one to two weeks and with hiscardiac surgeon , dr. ollom , in four to six weeks.escription document: 7-6466210 emsdictated by: dryer , jayattending: sluka , sauldictation id 8435107d: 10/23/05t: 10/23/05[report_end]