record date: 2076-07-01ew neurology resident consult notepatient name:	yusuf, russell			mrn: 1423602date:	7/01/76					  consult question: evaluate for stroke/tiahpi: 61 rhm was sitting on the couch watching tv.  at 6p he decided to walk to the store.  when he got outside, he had dizziness (lightheadedness, not spinning), and staggering gait.  he went home and sat back down.  when he got up again, he was again unsteady and lightheaded.  when he shuts his eyes, he says he has "spinning" sensation.  he took meclizine which did not help.  he has meclizine b/c he has had peripheral vertigo in the past.  he says that the dizziness he had today was different from that.  he had nausea but no vomiting.  he also had ringing in his ears and "blurry" vision and a "tingling" in the back of his head with face flushing during this episode.2d ago, he was watching tv and noted blurry vision.  he closed his r eye, and the vision was clear in his l eye.  he closed his l eye, and the vision out of his r eye was blurry.ros: signif for 2-3 mos of hallucinations upon waking up from sleep.  he had some chest pain the past few mos and was diagnosed with musculoskeletal pain.  he used to have some episodes of l leg giving out 6-7 yrs ago, had unremarkable emg and muscle bx at wolfe clinic, stopped falling 3-4 yrs ago and developed bilateral leg pains now tx'd with amitrypiline.  otherwise negative in detail including headache, change in weight, energy, appetite, palpitations, sob, doe, f/n/v/d/cough/chills, rash, brbpr, melena, abdominal pain, change in bowel or bladder habits (i.e incontinence).  no change in vision, hearing, vertigo, weakness, numbness, difficulty speaking or with language, swallowing, eating.pmh:htndmhigh cholesterolleg pain as aboveanxiety/depressionmed:asa 325meclizine 25 prnprotonix 40toprol 50klonopin 6 mg qd (being weaned down)amitryptiline 75 qhsprozac 20 (being weaned down)effexor 75 (being titrated up)all: codeine and percocetsh:	on disability d/t anx/depression.  tobacco    ppd, remote heavy etoh, none now, denies drugsfh: no stroke.  dtr had vertebral dissection this past yearvs:  t 98.2 hr 99 bp 158/89   rr 18 sat  95% on ra pe:genl 	wd wn wm nadheent 	at/nc, mmm no lesionsneck 	supple, no lan, no bruitschest 	cta bcvs 	rrr w/o mgrabd 	soft, ntnd, + bsext 	no c/c/e, distal pulses full, no rashes or petechiaeneuroms:	aa&ox3, appropriately interactive, normal affect attention: intact for interview	 speech: fluent w/o paraphasic error memory: not testedcalculations: not testedno finger agnosial/r confusion: no l/r confusionpraxis: not testedspatial: not testedno obvious perseveration.cn: 	i--not tested; ii,iii--perrla, vff by confrontation, optic discs sharp; iii,iv,vi-eomi w/o nystagmus, no ptosis; v--sensation intact to lt/pp, masseters strong symmetrically; vii--face symmetric without weakness; viii--hears finger rub bilaterally; ix,x--voice normal, palate elevates symmetrically; xi--scm/trapezii 5/5; xii--tongue protrudes midlinemotor:	normal bulk and tone, no tremor, rigidity or bradykinesia, no pronator drift. arm rolling:symmetric. strength: