032566784 | ph | 32147963 | | 913523 | 11/15/1995 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/6/1995 report status: signeddischarge date: 8/26/1995principal diagnosis: deep venous thrombosissecondary diagnosis: hereditary angioedemahistory of present illness: this is a 73 year old white female withhereditary angioedema with recentabdominal surgery presents with 30 hours of severe abdominal painand tightness , typical of her hereditary angioedema attacks. thepatient has had hae since childhood and recalls having a ring cutoff her finger as a child during an attack. she has had threetracheostomies , the last one over 20 years ago for laryngeal edema.symptoms include throat tightness , difficulty talking andswallowing and abdominal pain. she often has attacks at localtrauma sites. over the past several years she has received humanc1 esterase inhibitor as part of a study conducted at ctmc by dr.benjamin gendusa she has done very well with these treatments for acuteattacks until recently when she states the inhibitor has stoppedworking as well as previously. dr. greg toomsen has told her shemay have an antibody to the inhibitor and her recent events include4/17 admitted with severe abdominal pain , flare of hae , apparentlybecame hypotensive and acidemic and went to laparotomy emergently ,on pressors without bowel preparation. colostomy was done for bowelwall edema and was complicated by postoperative abscess requiringdrainage. one month ago she had her colostomy taken down which hasbeen complicated by incontinence of stool requiring depends. atbaseline , c4 is 6-10 , normal being 16-34 , c1 inhibitor 5-9 , normalbeing 25-83. on 8/20/95 at 1:30 p.m. she developed the onset oftypical hae attack with crescendo abdominal pain and throattightness. she took extra stanozolol but the abdominal painpersisted to where it was intolerable and she presented to the ewwith nausea and vomiting. last bowel movement was 8/20/95 ,slightly loose , normal urine. in the ew she was given demerol ,solu medrol , zantac and benadryl. past medical history: includescholecystectomy , appendectomy , hysterectomy for fibroid , but notbilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. she has a history of renalcalculi , history of abnormal liver function tests , unknown cause ,history of af , now controlled with dig and verapamil. she isstatus post subdural hematoma on coumadin at therapeutic levels ,hypothyroid on replacement , history of right deep venousthrombosis , history of carpal tunnel syndrome , severeosteoarthritis with cervical spine , lumbosacral spine and rightknee involvement. history of cerebrovascular accident , righthemiparesis , now at 90% of baseline , left iridectomy , left dropfoot , left thigh numbness and tingling , dizziness anddisequilibrium. family/social history: she has a son and twograndchildren with hae , three daughterse not effected , lives withhusband , daughter , lives upstairs. she uses no tobacco , rare etoh.medications: digoxin .125 mg q day , verapamil 60 mg b.i.d. ,coumadin 1 mg q day , aspirin 80 mg q day , synthroid 0.05 mg q day ,stanozolol 2 mg q day with increased dose as needed. allergies:quinidine causes nausea; iv contrast causes rash; propafenone ,migraines; penicillin rash; sulfa rash; novocaine throat swelling.food allergies are wheat , dairy , chocolate , walnuts andstrawberries.physical examination: on admission this is an ill-appearing womanwith a raspy voice. vital signs , 99.1 , heartrate 116 in atrial fibrillation , blood pressure 132/84 , respiratoryrate 18. head and neck examination , normocephalic , atraumatic ,status post iridectomy on left. the oropharynx is clear , nostridor. neck , supple , carotids 2+ , stigmata of old thyroidtracheostomy. lungs , clear to auscultation. heart , irregularlyirregular , tachycardia , i/vi early systolic murmur at left lowersternal border without radiation. abdomen , recent midline incision ,healing , normal bowel sounds , soft but exquisitely tender topalpation or percussion. there is positive rebound tenderness ,positive shake tenderness. rectal , guaiac positive per ew.extremities , no clubbing , cyanosis or edema , pulses are 2+peripherally. she has positive pain to passive motion right knee ,neck not examined. neuro , alert and oriented x 3 , cranial nervesare intact. motor is 5/5 throughout except left foot withoutextension. sensory , decreased light touch on the left lateralthigh , deep tendon reflexes 2+ throughout , toes right upgoing , leftdowngoing.laboratory data: white count 10.2 , hematocrit 41.3 , platelets377 , sodium 140 , potassium 3.8 , chloride 100 ,bicarb 30 , bun 14 , creatinine 1.5 , glucose 140 , liver functiontests normal. pt 13.5 , ptt 24.5. chest x-ray and kub withoutinfiltrates , no free air , no ileus , no obstruction. ekg , atrialfibrillation at 117 , normal qrs and qt , unchanged from 10/10 , digeffect is present.hospital course: the patient improved dramatically over the firstday of admission with decreased abdominal pain ,improving appetite and was started on clear liquids on 3/5/95 latein the day. initial treatment included solu medrol 125 mg iv bolusin the emergency room and stanozolol 2 mg q.i.d. when first sent tothe floor. she also had iv zantac 50 mg q8 for the first three daysof admission. the patient's symptoms continued to improve and dietwas advanced over the next several days. further concerns on thishospitalization were whether or not she would ever be a candidatefor further c1 esterase inhibitor replacement , the question beingwas her hypotension during the last treatment leading to bowelsurgery caused by the disease itself or as a response to theinhibitor. as of discharge this question has yet to be settled withdr. juengling the patient developed left pedal edema by 10/6/95 andalthough on low dose coumadin , note is made of past subdurals ontherapeutic coumadin. the patient had a lower extremity noninvasiverevealing a left leg deep venous thrombosis located at thebifurcation of the left common and superficial femorals. given thepatient's complications on coumadin in the past and risk ofpulmonary embolus , she was sent for filter placement which was doneon 2/14/95. the patient also had the complication of bright redblood per rectum , she said this happens occasionally at home and onexamination had moderate external hemorrhoids , no sign of recentbleeding , no internal hemorrhoids , no gross blood on examination.at this point she had normal coagulation studies and her hematocritwas 29.8 on 10/26/95. the patient was kept overnight with stablehematocrit and discharged on 11/7/95.disposition: the patient was discharged to home. medications:aspirin 81 mg p.o. q day; digoxin .125 mg p.o. q day;synthroid 50 micrograms p.o. q day; verapamil 60 mg p.o. t.i.d.;coumadin 1 mg p.o. q day; stanozolol 2 mg p.o. b.i.d. the patientwill followup by telephone with dr. rosario manoso condition ondischarge: good.dictated by: johnson forwood , m.d. xo24attending: titus dauila , m.d. eh6qc714/1685batch: 5555 index no. fsomyrfi9 d: 8/8/95t: 10/5/95