record #231270910038846 | damc | 74786632 | | 784878 | 3/4/2000 12:00:00 am | r/o myocardial infarction | signed | dis | admission date: 9/28/2000 report status: signeddischarge date: 4/3/2000principal diagnosis: streptococcal tricuspid valve endocarditissecondary diagnoses: 1. left ophthalmitis2. septic polyarthritis3. pacemaker malfunction4. diabetes mellitus type ii5. coronary artery disease status postcoronary artery bypass grafting6. pacemaker placement7. pulmonary hypertension8. obesity9. obstructive sleep apneaprocedures: see hospital coursehistory of present illness: the patient is a 54 year old gentlemanwith a past medical historysignificant for diabetes mellitus , obesity , coronary artery diseasestatus post coronary artery bypass grafting and pacemaker placementin 1996 and 1999 respectively , who presented on 9/28/2000 with afour day history of cough , fevers , chills , myalgias and left eyepain. the patient also noted over the course of four days prior toadmission , that his p.o. intake had been decreasing. he had beenexperiencing nausea and vomiting without diarrhea and fevers to 103degrees. on the day of admission the patient noted the suddenonset of vision loss in his left eye associated with redness andpain. in the emergency room the patient was given diamox , aspirinand nitropaste in response to t-wave inversions anteriorly on hiselectrocardiogram. in addition , the patient was cultured andstarted on broad spectrum antibiotics including ceftriaxone ,azithromycin and gentamycin.physical exam: vital signs: temperature 99.2 , heart rate 60 ,blood pressure 118/78 , 98% oxygen saturation on 100percent face mask. heent: os with hazy , edematous cornea ,moderately dilated fixed pupil with erythema and injectedconjunctiva. neck: supple without lymphadenopathy , no carotidbruits and no jugular venous distention. lungs: bibasilar scantcrackles. chest: distant heart sounds. regular rate and rhythm.no murmurs , rubs or gallops. s3 , loud s2. extremities: minimaledema , no cyanosis. 2 plus peripheral pulses. abdomen: obese ,soft , nontender and nondistended. normal bowel sounds. difficultto assess. neurological: nonfocal. rectal: guaiac negativebrown stool.laboratory data on admission: chemistry panel showed bun 74 ,creatinine 2.8 ( baseline 1.0 ) ,otherwise normal. albumen 2.4 , liver function studies otherwisenormal. ck 169 , troponin 1.7 , cbc showed a white blood cell countof 5.5 , hematocrit 33 , platelets 51. electrocardiogram showedpaced rate of 60 with t-wave inversions of v1-v6. chest x-rayshowed cardiomegaly with vascular redistribution. no focalinfiltrates noted. ct of the head showed no evidence of acutebleed. urinalysis essentially negative.hospital course: 1. infectious disease: the patient wasinitially treated with broad spectrum antibioticsin the emergency room and was rapidly noted to be hypotensive witha systolic blood pressure in the 72. the patient was hydratedaggressively and consistently pan cultured. the patient began tospike fevers from 100 to 101 range. on the second hospital day ,the patient grew 4/4 bottles of what turned out to be group b streptococcus.the patient's antibiotics were changed to penicillin and gentamycin. atransesophageal echocardiogram was performed on the day ofadmission and did not demonstrate any vegetation , however withpersistent high spiking fevers , sepsis and 4/4 blood culturebottles , repeated blood cultures growing gbs the patient had repeattransesophageal echocardiogram. this demonstrated a 1.5x1.0centimeter vegetation on the anterior annulus of the tricuspidvalve and it was also noted to be hitting the pacemaker wire thoughnot fixed to it. of note , the bubble study on the echocardiogramwas negative for patent foramen ovale.the patient presented complaining of left eye pain and loss ofvision on the night of admission in the emergency room , theophthalmologist saw the patient and determined that the patient hadan elevated pressure. the elevated pressure was treated and heresponded well by the following day. at that time the patient'seye was aspirated and noted to also be infected by gbs. thepatient was injected intraocular with vancomycin at that time.unfortunately the patient continued to spike fever despiteappropriate therapy for his gbs and his eye appeared to beworsening with continued erythema , conjunctival edema and apurulent exudate. it was determined that the patient would requireenucleation which he underwent on 0/27/2000.the patient also had a right lower extremity cellulitis during hishospital course. this was treated with a ten day course ofdicloxacillin and resolved without complications. the patient'scourse was complicated by persistent fevers despite appropriateantibiotic therapy and left eye enucleation. an extensive work upwas undertaken to evaluate the fevers including evaluation forpossible epidural abscess , psoas abscess and infected joints. noneof these proved to be a source. the patient underwent multiplejoint aspirations ( see musculoskeletal section below ) without clearevidence of infection. the patient also underwent a tagged whiteblood cell scan which demonstrated increased uptake in the leftshoulder , manubrium , right knee , left ankle and mid shaft of theleft tibia. these were interpreted both on the initial views anddelayed views as consistent with acute inflammation but notdiagnostic of infection. as mentioned above the patient was alsotreated for cellulitis and underwent left eye enucleation. thepatient's fever curve trended down throughout the hospital stay andon the day prior to admission , the patient underwent a repeattransesophageal echocardiogram to ensure that there was nomyocardial abscess. there was no evidence of any abscess and thevegetation was no longer visible. it was felt that the low gradefevers were secondary to ongoing inflammation but no acuteinfectious process at the time of discharge. the patient's lastpositive blood culture was 0/7/2000.of note , there was concern that the patient's fever could besecondary to a drug reaction. therefore once the infectious workup was completed , the penicillin was changed to vancomycin. hisgram positive coverage will need to be continued for four weeksafter his left eye enucleation.2. ophthalmology: as described above , the patient presented withleft eye pain and vision loss. it was felt from the time ofpresentation that the patient would not recover vision in his lefteye. the patient was treated initially for his elevated pressureand then the following day his eye was aspirated and injected withvancomycin. ultimately the patient had left eye enucleation. thepatient's eye healed well through the remainder of his hospitalcourse and does not appear to be a source of infection thereafter.the patient's extraocular muscles were left intact with the thoughtof placing a prosthesis at a later date.3. cardiovascular: on admission the patient was noted to havet-wave inversions anteriorly on his electrocardiogram. however itrapidly became clear that his pacemaker was malfunctioningdemonstrating only occasional pacing spikes. by 8/10/2000 thepacemaker was no longer capturing or sensing. as mentioned above ,the wire did not appear to be incorporated in the vegetation notedon the tricuspid valve however it did appear that the vegetationwas hitting the pacemaker wire with systole and diastole. on10/16/2000 the patient underwent pacemaker explantation withoutcomplications.the indication for pacemaker placement had been for bradycardia.there was some concern throughout the patient's hospital coursethat the patient would become bradycardic without his pacemaker inplace however this never manifested as a problem. he diddemonstrate some runs of ventricular tachycardia during the earlyphase of his hospital course but this resolved as his sepsisresolved. he did have one episode of supraventricular tachycardiathought to be 1-1 conduction of his atrial arrhythmia. hislopressor was increased in response to this and the patient wastolerating this dose without episodes of bradycardia orhypotension.the patient as mentioned above , underwent a transesophagealechocardiogram at the time of admission which demonstrated anejection fraction of 35 percent , apical hypokinesis , moderatelydilated right ventricle with moderately depressed systolicfunction. mild inferior vena cava dilatation consistent withelevated right heart filling pressures. the patient's cardiacfunction appeared to be stable throughout his hospitalization. hedid rule out for myocardial infarction at the time of admission.4. musculoskeletal: one of the patient's major presentingcomplaints was significant arthralgia and myalgia. it was thoughthat along with left ophthalmitis , the patient could have septicpolyarthritis. the patient underwent several arthrocentesis by therheumatology service. though the fluid did demonstrate elevatedwhite blood cell count it was never clear that these were acutelyinfected. there were no bacteria on gram stain or culture. thepatient's right knee continued to be tender , erythematous and warmduring the initial part of the hospitalization. therefore thepatient went to arthroscopic examination on 7/24/2000. thepatient's knee was lavaged with 9 liters of sterile saline prior toclosing all of the effusion was drained. there were nocomplications. the patient continued to have symptoms of right kneeeffusion and pain and therefore returned to the operating room on7/2/2000 for repeat arthrocentesis. since that time the rightknee has reaccumulated a moderate sized effusion but the patienthas tolerated physical therapy and has regained a moderate amountof his range of motion. it was determined that the patient shouldnot have this effusion drained again because it was no longer warmor erythematous.the left shoulder was also quite tender during the initial hospitalstay. the patient underwent multiple joint aspirations of theglenohumeral and acromioclavicular joints , both at the bed side andunder fluoroscopic examination. again , this joint demonstratedelevated white blood cell count but never any clear evidence thatit was a septic joint.the patient after his left eye enucleation , was noted to have anelevated ck of 1522. it was thought that this was an insignificantmb fraction. it was not felt that there was enough manipulation toskeletal muscles during the enucleation to warrant this. this risein ck did coincide with increased muscle aches. it was felt thatthe patient perhaps had a mild episode of rhabdomyolysis whichresolved quickly to a ck of 177 five days later.at the time of discharge the patient is experiencing no myalgias orarthralgias with the exception of the right knee which is stillsomewhat limited in its range of motion and demonstrates aneffusion but is responding well to rehabilitation.5. pulmonary: the patient was quite stable from a pulmonarystandpoint throughout his hospitalization. the patient wasinitially maintained in the emergency room on high flow oxygenhowever was quickly weaned to nasal cannula and then room air. thepatient does have obstructive sleep apnea and used his bipap atnight throughout his hospitalization.6. hematology: on admission the patient demonstrated athrombocytopenia with a nadir of 51. this has improved throughouthis hospital course and on the day of discharge his platelets werenoted to be 538.the patient was noted to have hematocrit that trended down andcorresponded to some guaiac positive stools with anticoagulation.the patient received a total of four units of packed red bloodcells. his hematocrit has remained stable with a good reticulocytecount at the time of discharge.the patient was anticoagulated for his atrial fibrillationinitially with heparin and then ultimately with coumadin 10 mg p.o.q hs. the patient's inr has been therapeutic in the 2-3 range forapproximately five days.7. renal: on admission the patient was noted to have an elevatedcreatinine from his baseline of 1.0. this was thought to besecondary to dehydration and prerenal azotemia. the patient'screatinine reached a peak of 3.0 and stabilized at 1.3 at the timeof discharge. this appears to have resolved entirely withresolution of sepsis and rehydration.8. fluids/electrolytes/nutrition: the patient was significantdehydrated at the time of admission. this responded rapidly to invitro fertilization. he also regained his appetite as his sepsisresolved. the patient is noted however to have a very pooralbumen , which is 2.3 at the time of discharge. the patient willrequire improved nutrition at rehabilitation and after dischargefrom rehabilitation. the patient's electrolytes were relativelystable throughout his hospital stay.9. endocrine: the patient has a long standing history of type iidiabetes mellitus. on admission , he was taking metformin 1000 mgp.o. b.i.d. , regular insulin 10 q a.m. and 10 q p.m. , nph insulin25 q a.m. and 20 q p.m. his hemoglobin a1-c was noted to beelevated at 8.1 in 8/11 the patient's metformin was heldthroughout his hospital stay with the anticipation of possibleinvasive procedures. he is maintained and nph insulin as well assliding scale insulin. the patient was restarted on his metforminprior to discharge and increased dose of nph insulin. this willlikely need to be adjusted as the patient recovers further.10. gastrointestinal: the patient did develop guaiac positivestools during his anticoagulation for atrial fibrillation. thiswill need to be followed up as an outpatient once the patient hasmade a full recovery from the acute event. also the patient diddemonstrate a mild transaminitis during his hospital stay and thisappears to have resolved with the transition from penicillin tovancomycin for his antibiotic regimen.medications on discharge: colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , ilotycin0.5% topical t.i.d. over left eyelid ,lasix 160 mg p.o. b.i.d. ( 8:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. ) , nph insulin 50units q a.m. and 35 units q p.m. , regular insulin 15 units q a.m.and q hs. regular insulin sliding scale q ac and hs. metoprolol50 mg p.o. q.i.d. , metamucil two packets p.o. b.i.d. , multivitaminwith minerals one tablet p.o. q day , vancomycin 1000 mgintravenously q 12 hours , coumadin 10 mg p.o. q day , norvasc 5 mgp.o. q day ( hold if systolic blood pressure less than 110 ) ,metformin 1000 mg p.o. b.i.d. , trandolapril p.o. b.i.d. ( hold ifsystolic blood pressure less than 110 ) , miconazole 2% powdertopical b.i.d. , tylenol 650 mg p.o. q 4 hours p.r.n. headache ,droperidol 0.625 mg intravenously q 6 hours p.r.n. nausea ,nitroglycerin 1/150 one tablet sublingual q 5 minutes times 3p.r.n. chest pain , serax 15-30 mg p.o. q hs p.r.n. insomnia ,percocet 1-2 tablets p.o. q 4h p.r.n. pain , senna syrup 2 teaspoonsp.o. q hs p.r.n. constipation.activity: per rehabilitation.diet: ada 2200 calorie diet , low saturated fat and lowcholesterol.disposition on discharge: the patient is discharged to therehabilitation facility.dictated by: edgardo gottke , m.d. bj97attending: benton b. modena , m.d. rc63zd414/2872batch: 0560 index no. r6np0h20u4 d: 2/7t: 2/7cc: dwayne kenny asa corkill[report_end]