641301240 | tmh | 45740634 | | 6103698 | 1/25/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 4/21/2005 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: gosnell , brice m.d.preliminary discharge summary.principal diagnosis on discharge: aspiration pneumonia , lineinfection , refractor asthma.history of present illness: this is a 59-year-old female wellknown to the team on admission with a history of copd/asthma ,history of intubation , chf ( ef of 30% ) , diabetes , schizoaffectivedisorder who presents with worsening shortness of breath anddyspnea as well as night sweats from landall medical center .  she wasdischarged from gms to rehab on january after being admittedfor shortness of breath and treated as a copd flare with one weekof azithromycin , prednisone taper and nebulizer treatments. shewas discharged with good o2 sats in the 90s on two liters ( herhome o2 requirement is 2 liters ). now she presents withworsening shortness of breath , night sweats and cough which isproductive. she denies chest pain , palpitations ,lightheadedness , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea. she also finished acourse of levofloxacin after an admit from july to 2 of may forsimilar symptoms.she was transferred from the landchi vier community hospital to townfaxt medical center ed withvital signs at that time were 99.5 , heart rate of 120 , bloodpressure of 105/35 , and a respiratory rate of 36 , and 81% on roomair and 86% on 5 liters. she received 1 mg of ativan , 5 duonebs ,500 mg iv of clindamycin , 500 mg of levofloxacin. her abg atthat time was 7.32/82/113 . her troponin was 0.13 and her bnp was29. it was thought that she required icu care and since no bedswere available at morei horan winblo health center , she was transferred to theceville tianfaulkharb medical center . her vital signs on admission include a heart rate of110 , a blood pressure of 190/55 , respiratory rate of 32 and sats87 to 89% on 4 liters , going up to 95% on 6 liters. she receivedvancomycin 1.5 iv x1 , albuterol and atrovent nebs stack as wellas aspirin.past medical history: remarkable for copd/asthma with lastpulmonary function tests in october 2005 showing an fvc of 41% ,fev1 of 0.74 liters , 33% , and a ratio of fev1/fvc of 83%. also ,schizoaffective disorder/questionable bipolar , gerd , diabetes ,chf with ef of 30% , and an echo in october 2005 , hypertensionand steroid myopathy.medications on admission:1. aspirin 325.2. dig 0.25.3. colace 100 b.i.d.4. guaifenesin 10 ml q. 4 p.r.n. for cough.5. insulin nph 56/12.6. isordil 10 t.i.d.7. lactulose 15.8. lisinopril 5.9. ativan 0.5 mg q. 6 p.r.n. for anxiety.10. milk of magnesia 30 p.r.n. constipation.11. robaxin 1 , 500 t.i.d.12. nystatin 5 q.i.d.13. prednisone 10.14. mdi atrovent q. 4.15. risperdal 3.16. miconazole powder topical b.i.d.17. seroquel 200/600.18. singulair 10.19. vitamin d 3-400.20. trileptal 75 b.i.d.21. depakote 250.22. advair 1 puff b.i.d.23. caltrate plus d.24. duonebs p.r.n.25. ??_____?? insulin 6 q.a.c.26. levalbuterol 1.25 t.i.d.27. lasix 80.allergies: penicillin , sulfa.social history: she lives alone but has husband who is involvedin her care. attends geri-day program three times per week.physical examination on admission: heart rate of 105 , bloodpressure 98/64. sat of 94% on six liters. on general exam , shewas morbidly obese , working to breathe , speaking in phrases.wanting water. respiratory distress. heent: tearing eyes.sclerae anicteric. extraocular muscles intact. oropharynx wasclear. chest with very poor air movement. it was end expiratorywheezes throughout. her cardiovascular: jvp not visualizedsecondary to body habitus. tachycardic. distant heart sounds.abdomen was soft , obese , nontender , nondistended. herextremities: there was 2+ edema to the knee level.labs: remarkable labs on admission include a creatinine of 1.7 ,a bicarb of 38 , her bnp was 29 , troponin was 0.13. her crit was32.4 , white blood count 7.6 , and platelets 267. on thedifferential her white blood count was 93 polys , no bands. coagswere within normal limits. her ua was ??__??. ekg showed sinustachycardia 106 , some t-wave inversions in lead 1 , someflattening in lead 5 , but essentially unchanged from prior.chest x-ray: portable ap view with stable cardiomegaly ,questionable of lower lobe infiltrate but no evidence of chf.analysis and plan: on admission , this is a 59-year-old femalewith history of recent copd and asthma exacerbation , diabetes ,chf , who presents with worsening shortness of breath andsuspected right middle lobe pneumonia.hospital course by problem:1. pulmonary: the patient presented with hypercarbic , hypoxemicrespiratory distress , most likely secondary to a recurrentpneumonia in the setting of her baseline obstructive/restrictivepulmonary disease. she was not found to be volume overloaded onadmission , and she had a d-dimer that was negative as well. herrestrictive lung disease is most likely secondary to her bodyhabitus leading to obesity hyperventilation syndrome and herobstructive disease have components of asthma since hasresponsive bronchodilation after beta-agonist. the management ofher respiratory status involved initially starting on steroids ,prednisone 60 mg , frequent nebs , as well as continuing her advairand singulair. it was also planned to use bipap since she mighthave sleep apnea component despite no objective data supportingthat. she on second day of hospital stay , was under increasedrespiratory distress. a repeat blood gas showed a ph of 7.27 , apco2 of 88 , and a po2 of 82 on 50% of o2. since clinicallypatient was deteriorating , it was decided that she would benefitof intubation. the patient was intubated on may and wasplaced on ac mode. on ventilation , the patient initiallyrequired ac since she was not able to maintain good total volumeson pressure support. multiple times that it was attempted towean her off the ventilator , she developed increased respiratorydistress and decreased total volume with ventilator mechanicsshowing increased airway resistance. despite frequent nebs , shewas unable to be weaned off the ventilator. on january , aftermultiple attempts , it was decided that she would benefit fromlongterm ventilatory support. she underwent a peg andtracheostomy placement by dr. rosaro with no complications. sincejanuary , her ventilatory settings were decreased to pressuresupport with peep of 5 and a pressure support of 10. she had tworecurrent episodes of increased respiratory distress when movedin bed. it was suspected that her respiratory distress wasrelated to a mechanical obstruction of her tracheostomy and priorto discharge , she will be getting a different trach recommendedby surgery which will minimize this mechanical obstruction.otherwise , she is currently on 40% of fio2 and a peep of 5 ,pressure support of 12 and at those settings she is getting tidalvolumes in the range from 380 to 450 and o2 sats between 98 and100%.2. id: her chest x-ray had a suspected right middle lobeinfiltrate in addition to the fever and increased white bloodcount. it was decided that she would benefit from nosocomialpneumonia coverage. her first course of antibiotics includedlevo , clinda. , as well as vancomycin. cultures of her sputum andblood were sent , were negative. her sputum cultures just greworal flora and her blood cultures initially were all negative buton january , she had a positive culture for staph. , guaiacnegative , in the setting of a central venous line. it wasthought at that moment that she had secondary infection which wasmsse line infection and all lines were pulled and she wascontinued on vancomycin for another 14 days. her antibioticswere switched to ceftaz. , azithromycin , clindamycin andvancomycin. she received a total of 21 days of antibiotics andprior to discharge had finished her ceftaz. and flagyl. she alsoreceived a 14 day course of vancomycin after the central venouslines were removed and since then she has been afebrile and allblood cultures after october have been negative , so about 10days with negative blood cultures and sputum cultures.just prior to discharge , her left ij line will be removed sinceshe just finished her course of antibiotics as well as herperipheral a line.endocrine: the patient received high dose of steroids ,prednisone 60 mg , for about two weeks and had a couple ofattempts to decrease the prednisone but responded with increasedbroncho-resistance on ventilator measurements and it was decidedto keep her at a higher dose. the week prior to admission , aslow tapering was started with 50 mg for 5 days , then 50 mg foranother 4 days and on discharge , she was on the transition pointto 30 mg. she was getting calcium carbonate and vitamin d forosteoporosis prevention. her diabetes was managed with lantus100 units a day with portland insulin protocol on initial icustay transitioned to regular insulin scale. she was not needingany extra insulin units prior to discharge.cardiovascular:a. ischemia: the patient had recent workup for cad includingcath which was negative , but she did have an elevation troponinwhich was likely secondary to demand ischemia with spontaneousresolution. she was continued on aspirin. there was no anginaor new changes in ekg during this admission.b. pump: she looked slightly volume overloaded on admission.she received lasix80 iv b.i.d. and her diuretic regimen was titrated and she mightneed , once discharged ,a standing dose of lasix to maintain her i's and o's goal even.her blood pressure off the ace inhibitor on hospital stay rangedbetween 112 and 130. we plan to restart her on a small-dose aceinhibitor prior to discharge with the objective of better bloodpressure control as well as renal protection from her diabetes.we will not restart isordil since patient had no evidence ofcoronary artery disease.psych: we will continue home regimen of trileptal , depakote aswell as risperdal.heme: her hematocrit has remained stable during this admission.since she was getting multiple blood draws , she received about 2units of packed red blood cells and all her workup for a sourceof anemia was negative including vitamin b12 , including ironstudies as well. her heme ?__? panel was also negative.musculoskeletal: patient had an infiltrative ?___? on her leftarm around her peripheral iv access. the infiltration lead to alarge ulcer which was managed by plastics. they recommended onlyb.i.d. dressing changes. there were no signs of evidentinfection in the site and healing since that event has been quitegood. there are some signs of granulation tissue in the ulcerbase but no erythema or pus around it. physical therapy hasbeen involved in the case and have been doing tremendous work inputting her sitting upright , as well as gaining increasedstrength on her extremity. she is still unable to raise her armagainst gravity but she has 2/5 muscle strength throughout andshe will likely need intensive rehab once she is discharged.fen: she had a metabolic test performed which yielded a measureresting energy expender of 2121 kilocalories a day and apredicted basal metabolic rate of 1771 kilocalories a day. thoseresults yielded to an increase in her tube feedings which areconsisted of osmolite 1.2 at 70 cc an hour.escription document: 0-8247167 mcsdictated by: hargitt , arthurattending: oakden , jeffrydictation id 3474077d: 3/8/05t: 3/8/05