record #258841384118261 | ngh | 60750323 | | 9982175 | 1/19/2005 12:00:00 am | right lower lobe pneumonia | signed | dis | admission date: 7/10/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/2/2005attending: werner renee mdadmission diagnosis: change in mental status.discharge diagnosis: hypercarbic respiratory failure andaspiration pneumonia.brief history of presentation: the patient is a 74-year-oldwoman with a past medical history significant for rectosigmoidcancer complicated with vesicular vaginal fistula status posttotal pelvic exenteration , cystectomy with ileal loop diversionon february 2004 , obesity , hypoventilation syndrome with chronicrespiratory acidosis status post gluteal sacral abscess who wasbrought to the emergency department from a skilled nursingfacility with change in mental status and sacral wound infection.in the emergency department at 4 p.m. her vitals were noted tobe a temperature 98 , heart rate 73 , blood pressure 145/63 , andshe was breathing 90% on 4 liters nasal cannula. she was notedto have no orientation to place and abg showed a ph of 7.2 , pco2103 and a po2 of 249. at 5:30 p.m. the patient becamediaphoretic. blood cultures were drawn and her mental status wasworsening. she was started on 100% nonrebreather and subsequentabg was 7.17 , pco2 of 109 , po2 of 217. with bipap initiation herabg improved to a ph of 7.21 , pco2 of 87 , po2 of 87. then , shewas subsequently intubated , started on assist control ventilationwith an abg of 7.37 , pco2 of 59 , po2 141. she was a difficultintubation , required fiberoptic assistance. her vitals at thattime , she had a blood pressure of 80-90/60s , that slowly returnedto 110s/60s. in the emergency department , a head ct , pe protocolct and chest abdominal ct showed right lower lobe opacification.she had a head ct that showed no acute intracranial abnormality.an abdominal ct showed an air fluid collection in the pelvis andsome cholelithiasis and a ct pe showed no evidence of pe thoughadmittedly the study was limited and there was a small bilateralpleural effusion and right lower lobe consolidative paucitypossibly representing an early pneumonia. she was started onlevo flagyl and vanc and received 1-2 liters iv fluid. inaddition , she had elevated k which was treated with insulin d5calcium gluconate. she had an ekg which showed t wave inversionsof v2-v4 and flat t waves in v5. she was admitted to the medicalintensive care unit where she was intubated and sedated withversed and fentanyl , and at that time she was hemodynamicallystable.past medical history: the patient's past medical history isnotable locally advanced rectosigmoid cancer t4 m1 metastaticdiagnosed in 2003. it was diagnosed in the context of diarrheaand rectal bleeding and passing stool in the vagina and bladder.she had vesicular and vaginal fistulas at that time. she isstatus post total pelvic exenteration with ileal loop diversionin february 2004 , status post xrt in august and july 2004 , statuspost gluteal sacral abscess november 2004 , status post c-difcolitis in november 2004 , status post e. coli mss bacteremia innovember 2004 , obesity , hypoventilation syndrome. she normallysats in the 80s on room air. she has iron deficiency anemia ,gerd , osteoarthritis. an echo may 2004 showed normal leftventricular function with an ef of 60% with question of elevatedright-sided pressures , lvh and she suffered immobility secondaryto xrt with back pain and lower extremity edema , status posttotal abdominal hysterectomy in november 2001 , and had apulmonary evaluation in february 2004 in which she was assessed tohave obesity , hypoventilation syndrome , nocturnal oxygendesaturation , chronic respiratory acidosis complicated withlongstanding obesity hypoventilation syndrome.medications: the patient takes tylenol p.r.n. pain , vitamin c500 b.i.d. , zinc sulfate 220 daily , iron sulfate 325 t.i.d. ,oxycodone 5 q.4h p.r.n. pain though she does not require thatvery often , toprol xl 50 daily , lovenox 40 subq. daily , remeron7.5 q.h.s. , xalantan 7 drops ou , seroquel 25 q.h.s. , nexium 20daily , mag oxide 800 b.i.d.allergies: erythromycin causes gi upset , penicillin causes mouthsores.social history: she has two children , she is divorced , lives ata skilled nursing facility , prior smoker but does not drinkalcohol and no history of iv drug use.family history: complicated with obesity. father died at age of83 of colon cancer. mother had dementia.physical examination: the patient is a morbidly obese woman whoat the time of the document exam was intubated , vented andsedated. she was asleep , did not open her eyes. her neck wassupple. chest: there were coarse breath sounds with diffusewheezes. her cardiac exam was notable for an s1 , s2 , regularrate and rhythm and the jvp was difficult to assess. abdominalexam was notable for a colostomy. her abdomen was soft ,nontender , and no bowel sounds were appreciated. her extremitieswere warm and well perfused. neurologically , she was sedated.skin was not notable for any rashes or petechiae.hospital course: by system:1. pulmonary: the patient was in the medical intensive careunit from the 1 of october to the 13 of july of march . she has known obesityhypoventilation syndrome. she was weaned from assist control topressure support ventilation. on the 13 of july , the patient selfextubated , was put on bipap and then quickly transitioned tonasal cannula. the patient did report needing bipap at night atone point though later on it was felt that she was not on bipapat night normally. she has an elevated right hemidiaphragm seenon chest x-ray and at baseline sats 90-93% on 2 liters. on thefloor , she was seen by pulmonary consult about management of herobesity ventilation syndrome. at the time of discharge thepatient is to sleep on bipap 10/0. those parameters will need tobe optimized with a sleep study after discharge and , in addition ,the patient will have to be observed at night with sats beingmonitored to qualify her for bipap at night. in the hospital wedid monitor her sats overnight and she satted 85-87% on 2 litersof nasal cannula when she was sleeping at night.2. infectious disease: the patient had a right lower lobepneumonia treated with levofloxacin and flagyl that was startedin the emergency department on june , 2005. she willcomplete a 14 day course of those antibiotics. the patient wasconsistently afebrile and the thought was the patient hadaspiration right lower lobe pneumonia. the patient did receive afew doses of vancomycin which was later discontinued. thepatient was also treated by diflucan and flagyl to cover bv/yeastinfection as the patient was noted to have some vaginaldischarge. the vaginal discharge ultimately had negativecultures. the patient also had a known stage iv decubitus in hersacral area that did not appear to be infected.3. cardiovascular: the patient was volume overloaded afterreceiving significant fluids when she first presented. she had aleft pleural effusion on subsequent chest x-rays. she wasdiuresed aggressively with lasix. typical doses were 40 mg ivand at the time of discharge the patient could comfortably lieflat on her back without any discomfort. the patient also wasnoted to have some ectopy. her lytes were repleted. anechocardiogram was checked which showed normal ef moderate rightventricular dysfunction and no wall motion abnormalities. thisdid not demonstrate any change from prior.4. neuropsych: the patient had an altered mental status likelyrelated to hypercarbic respiratory failure and also hypoxemia atthe time of present admission. she was weaned off sedation. shehad a negative head ct. when she was extubated , the patient wasalert and oriented and returned back to baseline mental status.5. heme: the patient was immobile at baseline and is high riskfor pet protocol. ct at the time of admission was negative andthe patient was treated with lovenox prophylaxis. the patientwas also continued on her iron pills.6. renal: the patient has metabolic compensation forrespiratory acidosis which resolved during the icu stay , and thepatient's creatinine return to baseline during herhospitalization.7. gi: the patient received tube feeds through her og tube andwas transitioned to p.o.'s.8. surgery/gyn: the patient has a known colonic vaginal fistulawith purulent vaginal discharge. she was seen by surgery and gynwho evaluated her and looked at her abdominal ct and felt thatthis was not a clinically significant fistula and was not in facta source of infection.9. disposition: the patient will be discharged to a skillednursing facility/rehab facility. she requires intensiverehabilitation and nursing given her body habitus and her limitedmobility.discharge medications: the patient will be discharged on vitaminc 500 b.i.d. , calcium carbonate 500 t.i.d. , colace 100 b.i.d. ,pepcid 20 b.i.d. , iron sulfate 325 t.i.d. , mag oxide 840 b.i.d. ,mag sliding scale , flagyl 500 p.o. t.i.d. to finish on june , zinc sulfate 220 mg p.o. daily , lovenox 40 mg subq. daily ,xalantan 1 drop ou q.p.m. , levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. daily tofinish on november , miconazole nitrate 2% topical powderb.i.d. , combivent neb 2 puffs q.i.d. as needed , promod 2 scoopsp.o. daily , maalax q.6h p.r.n. upset stomach.escription document: 4-1861352 dbssten teldictated by: renuart , caryattending: tirk , grahamdictation id 8441404d: 1/4/05t: 1/4/05[report_end]