record #259263531749970 | gv | 67348439 | | 098917 | 7/25/1999 12:00:00 am | rule out myocardial infarction | signed | dis | admission date: 7/25/1999 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/11/1999principal diagnosis: unstable angina.secondary diagnoses:1. insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus for 30 years.2. hyperlipidemia.3. hypertension.4. coronary artery disease.5. status post right coronary artery stent placement in the leftcircumflex and the obtuse marginal arteries in 1997.6. total blindness x2 years.history of present illness: mrs. carlo branscomb is a 63 yearold woman with cardiac risk factorsincluding hypertension , insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus x30years , elevated cholesterol , known coronary artery disease statuspost mi , who presented with 1 1/2 hours of chest pain. this chestpain began at approximately 9:30 a.m. while the patient wasawaiting her ride to the center for the blind , where she spendsmost of her mornings and afternoon. the patient began as a dullache substernal in location , described as a squeezing sensationsimilar to her past angina , but less strong than the angina she hadhad last week before coming to the er, holeo hospital center . thepatient described this as 4/10 chest pain. she also had shortnessof breath , diaphoresis , and wrist tingling on the left. thepatient took one sublingual nitro at home with some relief , but thepain came back as she walking around her home looking for herhospital identification care. she had worsening of the pain withexercise. she sat down and her visiting nurse gave her two moresublingual nitroglycerin with some relief of pain and called theambulance. in the ambulance , the patient continued to have thepain and she received one more sublingual nitroglycerin and nasalcannula oxygen. the pain was gone upon arrival to ahi university of medical center in the emergency department , the patient was found to beafebrile with heart rate in the high 90s , bp 200s/100s. ekg withquestionable changes compared to old , showing normal sinus rhythmto leftward axis and lvh. for her elevated heart rate and bloodpressure , the patient received 5 mg of iv lopressor and 20 mg oflabetalol in the emergency department and was started on heparin.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications: zocor 40 mg p.o. q.d.; nph 25 u subcu. q.a.m.;regular insulin 15 u subcu. q.a.m.; captopril 37.5 mgp.o. t.i.d.; lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d.; imdur 60 mg p.o. q.d.;ecasa 325 mg p.o. q.d.; adalat cc 30 mg p.o. q.a.m.social history: the patient was born in rika hwy , scond pringsi vi , missouri 79802 and immigrated tothe na lu clearmode in 1968. the patient formerlyworked as a nurses aide at nac.c riversredd medical center . the patient liveswith her son and his wife , and their four children. the patienthas never smoked and does not drink.physical examination: vital signs: heart rate 73 , bp 93/51 ,oxygen saturation 98% on room air , and wasafebrile when she arrived on the floor. general: the patient wasalert and in no acute distress , and as previously noted , thepatient is blind. heent: an atrophic right eye with two palpablerecoiled muscles in the upper and lower palpebral margin. her lefteye is mobile , but has a clouded pupil area. she does not blink tothreat. chest: clear to auscultation bilaterally. neck: herjugular venous pressure was not elevated. heart: regular rate andrhythm , with audible s1 , s2 , no murmur , rubs , or gallops wereappreciated. abdomen: soft , mildly obese , non-tender ,non-distended. the patient had audible bowel sounds. extremities:no clubbing or cyanosis. she has trace edema in the lowerextremities , good pulses bilaterally in her lower extremities andin her upper extremities. neuro: grossly intact , except for hervisual exam. skin: no rashes , warm , and dry.laboratory data: initial labs when the patient arrived included anormal chem-7. cbc that was normal , including awhite blood cell count 8 , hematocrit 41.3 , platelets 254 , with 52polys , 33 lymphs , and 0 bands on her differential. coags - pt19.9 , inr 0.8. initial ck 251 , initial troponin 1.26.hospital course: initial questioning of the patient revealed thatshe had actually been admitted less than twoweeks earlier with similar syndrome of chest pain , though as thepatient describes , worse two weeks previously. at that point , thepatient had had a modified bruce protocol with duration of the test5 minutes 12 seconds , with 63% of heart rate achieved. the patienthad stopped secondary to chest pain and had had st-t wave segmentabnormalities , with 1 mm st segment depressions in inferior leadsand angina. the test was interpreted as being highly predictive ofsignificant coronary disease. however , at that time , the patientrefused catheterization and decided on medical management for thisanginal pain. however , with the return of this pain and her returnadmission to the hospital , the patient made the decision that shewould be catheterized and she was placed on this schedule. otherinitial interventions , other than what was done in the emergencyroom , which included maximizing blood pressure and heart ratemanagement with lopressor. the patient was continued on her dailyaspirin and zocor. the patient was ruled out for a mi. thepatient's cholesterol and lipids were checked , and an initialechocardiogram was also obtained on the patient. that echo done on8/15/99 in the morning revealed overall normal left ventricularsize with preserved systolic function , an estimated ejectionfraction of 60% , and hypokinesis of inferior posterior wall andseptum. the mitral valve was minimally thickened with minimalmitral regurgitation. there was no significant aortic or tricuspidvalve regurgitation or dysfunction. there was normal rightventricular size and function. there was no evidence ofpericardial effusion. the left ventricle was thought to bemoderate to severely hypertrophied. however , the inferiorposterior walls were less hypertrophied than other areas. thepatient had one episode of chest pain over the weekend as her cathwas planned for monday morning. this chest pain occurred on8/15/99 , again of elevated blood pressure 200/107. it wasrelieved by increasing her iv tng drip to 7.5 mg , iv lopressor , andthree sublingual nitroglycerins. the patient had no ekg changes ,and had no other chest pain over the weekend. the patient wascontinued on heparin , iv tng , aspirin , and captopril. over theweek , her lopressor was increased to 37.5 mg t.i.d. for better betablockade. the patient also had her dose of nph adjusted to halfher regular dose , as she was having low blood sugars.the patient's catheterization ultimately was 6/29/99. findingsincluded a clean left main coronary artery , a lad with luminalirregularities , small vessel in general , and a t1 with about 60%stenosis , also small vessel , and circumflex with about 70% midstenosis. the rca , where her past stents had been placed , wascompletely occluded , which was ballooned and a brief examination ofthe abdominal aorta for renal artery stenosis revealed no evidenceof renal artery stenosis. thus , no stents were placed , but thepatient's old stents were ballooned open with good achieved flowand 40% residual after ballooning. the patient continued to dowell the day post-cath and ultimately was sent home the followingmorning with follow-up with her cardiologist , dr. zinkldischarge medications: ecasa 325 mg p.o. q.d.; captopril 37.5 mgp.o. t.i.d.; nph 25 u subcu. q.a.m.;regular 15 u subcu. q.a.m.; nitroglycerin 1/150 sl 1 tab p.o. q.5minutes x3 as needed for chest pain; zocor 40 mg p.o. q.d.; imdur60 mg p.o. q.d.; adalat cc 30 mg p.o. q.a.m.; lopressor 50 mg p.o.t.i.d.discharge follow-up: the patient will follow-up with hercardiologist , dr. garnett in 1-2 weeks.condition on discharge: stable condition.discharge disposition: the patient was discharged to home.dictated by: thomas vida , m.d. dw22attending: shannon t. bolender , m.d. my89cc612/9339batch: 75574 index no. abwr5ngsv d: 10/28/99t: 8/14/99cc: 1. tobias f. distefano , m.d.2. cristobal l. plumber , m.d.[report_end]