133470421 | oh | 45646530 | | 257791 | 9/9/1992 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 9/9/1992 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/26/1992admission diagnosis: chest pain. secondary diagnosis is cerebralpalsy with mental retardation.history of present illness: the patient is a 27 year old black manwith a history of cerebral palsy andmental retardation who now presents with chest pain of three daysduration. his cardiac risk factors include positive family historyand a history of hypertension. he does not smoke tobacco and hasno history of diabetes. note that the patient is a very poorhistorian , however , through his mother , he complains ofapproximately three weeks of increasing fatigue and malaise. theweek prior to admission , he had a single episode of chest pain at"work" ( actually his day activity center ) which resolvedspontaneously. three days prior to admission , the patient hadpoorly defined chest pain with marked diaphoresis. this pain wasworse with deep inspiration and , in addition , he had generalizednausea and malaise with shortness of breath. this pain waxed andwaned over the day and was not exertional in nature. he was seenat childmiltrich health care where no laboratories were drawn and he wasreferred to follow-up on friday. one day before admission , thepatient had chest pain radiating to the left upper arm withnumbness in that extremity. he had nausea and occasionaldiaphoresis. he had an echocardiogram on that day at tal hospital which revealed mild left ventricular hypertrophy but noregional wall motion abnormality and was otherwise normal. on theday of admission , the patient complained of increased severity ofchest pain with shortness of breath. he "felt sick" but deniedvomiting or diaphoresis. he came to the sta medical center emergency room where he continued to complain of chestpain radiating to the left shoulder as well as into the abdomen.this symptom was worsened with inspiration as well as with centralsternal palpation. at baseline , the patient does little exercisesecondary to his cerebral palsy , he has three-pillow orthopnea butno paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , and he has no prior episodes ofchest pain except as described above. past medical history:significant for cerebral palsy as above and also for pneumonia in1986. current medications: he takes no medications. allergies:he has no allergies. social history: he does not smoke tobacco ,he does not drink alcohol , and he does not use intravenous drugs.he is a regular church goer , he lives with his mother , and attendsa day rehabilitation care center. family history: significant forangina in his mother and a grandfather with coronary arterydisease.physical examination: he was afebrile , his blood pressure was160/130 , heart rate was 65 , respiratory ratewas 20 , and he was 98% saturated on room air. he was an obeseblack man in no acute distress. skin: clear. heent: theoropharynx was clear , there was no jugular venous distention ,carotids were 2+ and equal , pupils were equal , round , and reactiveto light and accommodation , and the neck was supple withoutlymphadenopathy. the fundi were not well seen secondary to poorcooperation. lungs: clear to auscultation. cardiac: there was aregular rate and rhythm , s1 and s2 were heard , and there was aii/vi systolic ejection murmur at the left upper sternal border.abdomen: obese with positive bowel sounds , it was non-tender ,slightly tympanitic , there was no hepatosplenomegaly , and thepatient was guaiac negative. extremities: examination revealed noclubbing , cyanosis , or edema. there was no focal tenderness andpulses were intact bilaterally. neurological: he was alert andoriented times three and he was unable to do simple calculations ,however , cranial nerves ii-xii were intact. sensory and motor inthe upper and lower extremities were within normal limits , reflexeswere brisk and symmetric , and toes went down.laboratory examination: ekg revealed normal sinus rhythm with anaxis of 0 degrees and normal intravals.there was left ventricular hypertrophy by voltage in avl and therewere no acute st or t wave changes , however , there was no old ekgfor comparison. an sma 7 was benign , a ck on admission was 283with 10 mb , white count was 9.4 , and urinalysis was negative.chest x-ray initially revealed evidence of pulmonary vascularredistribution , however , a repeat chest x-ray an hour later wasclear.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the floor and givenhis rather indistinct complaints , a broad-basedwork-up was initiated including a rule out for myocardialinfarction. although the patient continued to have elevated ckwith elevated mb , these were electrophoresed and found not to bemb. there was concern given the pleuritic nature of his chest painthat the patient may have suffered a pulmonary embolism. lowerextremity non-invasives were negative as was a vq scan. thepatient was kept on cardiac monitor until his rule out formyocardial infarction was complete. throughout hishospitalization , the patient continued to complain of diffuse bodypain as well as "feeling sick" , however , he continued to beafebrile with normal laboratories. on the second hospital day , thepatient became aware of the fact that his mother had been admittedto an outside hospital for a rule out myocardial infarction. hebecame quite agitated and at that time complained of increasingabdominal pain. he was treated with laxatives and reassurance andseemed improved. on the fourth hospital day , it was felt that thepatient was not suffering from any serious illness and that themost dangerous entities had been ruled out. it was felt that hewas most likely suffering from a viral flu syndrome. his bloodpressure was controlled with a beta blocker and he was dischargedin stable condition to home.disposition: discharge medications: atenolol 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. ,nifedipine xl 30 mg p.o. q.d. , and pepcid 20 mg p.o.b.i.d. he will follow-up with dr. fugatt in haysc hospital clinic in onemonth's time.iw827/6871tad c. shelby , m.d. mq1 d: 4/28/92batch: 1402 report: d4823p6 t: 2/22/92dictated by: collin mohorovich , m.d.