record #270243313990642 | hhs | 03264163 | | 610042 | 10/26/1991 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 3/5/1991 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/26/1991principal diagnosis: lymphoma.history of present illness: the patient is a 43-year-old withan fuo recently admitted for furtherwork-up of fever. approximately 12 weeks ago , the patient notedthe onset of fevers , intermittent to 102 or 103 , nonproductivecough , arthralgias , myalgias , sweats and chills. there was somediffuse abdominal pain. the patient has had recurrent fevers andwas admitted to un dell nimay memorial hospital on 10/24/91 for awork-up. this together with sh work-up has been fairlyextensive. he was discharged from the hospital two weeks ago andfive days ago after afebrile days , he began having fevers again. hewas admitted at this time for further work-up. he has had threeepisodes of nausea and vomiting during the febrile episodes in thelast week. he has been passing gas and has been constipated. healso noted a productive cough. hiv risk factors were negative.work-up has included chest ct which revealed enlarged diaphragmaticlymph nodes , coronary artery calcium deposits and two small livercysts. pelvic ct revealed retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy with asecond cecum. chest x-ray was normal. testicular ultrasoundrevealed no masses. abdominal ultrasound was normal with ectaticaorta. upper gi series revealed nodularity to the mucosa withinthe gastric antrum , question focal gastritis. endoscopy withbiopsy revealed gastritis , no evidence of malignancy. serologyrevealed hepatitis a igm antibody negative , hepatitis a iggantibody positive , hepatitis surface antigen negative , rubellaimmune , rpr negative , toxo negative , cmv negative , hsv positive( old infection ). lyme titer was 11.7 ( normal is 0-9 ). ppd wasnegative. spep normal. afp , beta hcg , cea negative. malariascreens were negative. b-12 and folate were normal. hiv wasnegative. multiple blood and urine cultures all negative.allergies: penicillin. medications: on admission includedtylenol and percocet.physical examination: on admission revealed a temperature of103.4. heent exam was within normal limits.lungs were clear. neck was supple with no jugular venousdistention , there was some shotty lymphadenopathy. cardiac examrevealed a regular rate and rhythm without murmurs , rubs orgallops. abdomen revealed positive bowel sounds , some mildtenderness , question enlarged liver edge. there was positiveinguinal lymphadenopathy. extremities revealed no clubbing ,cyanosis or edema , positive lichen planus. neurological exam wasnonfocal. rectal exam was deferred.hospital course: the patient was seen by both infectiousdisease service and hematology oncology service.the patient had an ana which was negative. rheumatoid factor wasnegative. lyme titer was 4.5. hepatitis c was negative. ct scanof the abdomen and pelvis done on 1/19 showed essentially no changewith multiple retroperitoneal lymph nodes , possible increased sizeof the left external inguinal lymph node. the ultrasound of theabdomen was negative for gallstones or biliary duct dilatation butshowed an abdominal aortic aneurysm of 2.5 cm. the patient had abone marrow biopsy which showed large atypical cells infiltratingwith fibrosis , a picture consistent with hodgkin's diseaseinvolving the bone marrow. the patient had defervesced and wasscheduled for discharge on the day which the bone marrow biopsyresults were received. he was informed of the diagnosis and is tofollow-up with dr. dallmann on an outpatient basis.iy774/0899keven ismael denzine , m.d. xq3 d: 3/26/91batch: 3748 report: e1932q31 t: 5/9/91dictated by: malik m. attkisson , m.d.[report_end]