197067530 | ibh | 20930664 | | 8834204 | 1/20/2006 12:00:00 am | s/p unwitnessed fall , r/o syncope | unsigned | dis | admission date: 7/1/2006 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 2/2/2006attending: kalil , hong m.d.service:rh team.principal diagnosis for admission:status post fall and urinary tract infection.list of problems during admission:1. dehydration.2. urinary tract infection.3. dementia.4. diabetes.5. demand mi.history of present illness:this is an 83-year-old female with multiple medical problems mostnotably for mitral stenosis status post a st. jude's valverepair , nonobstructive coronary artery disease , atrialfibrillation status post pacemaker. the patient currently livesat home alone and has had numerous recent admissions formechanical falls. the patient was admitted this time11/20/06 after falling at home in the bathroom. the patient wasfound by her grandson who called ems. she was down forapproximately 24 hours. she denied any lightheadedness , chestpain , shortness of breath. she does recall some frequenturination for the past couple days and malaise , no fever orchills. family states that they are very concerned about thepatient's ability to take care of herself. however , the patientinsists she is independent and does not want to be placed inrehabilitation or have 24-hour supervision at home.past medical history:significant for mitral stenosis with st. jude's mitral valverepair , nonobstructive coronary artery disease , atrialfibrillation status post pacemaker.medications on admission:1. norvasc 10 mg p.o. daily.2. coumadin 5 mg half a tablet monday , wednesday , friday andsunday.3. amiodarone 100 mg daily.4. lasix 40 mg daily.5. glyburide 2.5 mg b.i.d.6. lisinopril 20 mg daily.7. isordil 20 mg b.i.d.8. zocor 20 mg nightly.9. ultram p.r.n.allergies:the patient is allergic to aspirin and penicillin , both cause arash.review of systems:positive for frequent urination and malaise , no other complaints.physical examination on admission:vital signs: temperature 98.7 , blood pressure 160/64 , heart rate80 , respiratory rate 18 , o2 saturation 98% on room air. thepatient appeared in no apparent distress , awake , alert , andoriented x3. heent: bitemporal wasting , left eye with purulentdischarge. cvs: normal s1 , s2 , irregularly irregular , mitralvalve click is audible. jvp is 5 cm. lungs: clear toauscultation bilaterally. extremities: trace ankle edemabilaterally. neuro: awake , alert and oriented x3 , no focaldeficits.pertinent labs on admission:sodium 146 , creatinine 1.1. inr 2.1. urinalysis revealed 2+ketones , 3+ blood , 3+ protein , 15-25 hyaline casts , 25 whiteblood cells and 2+ bacteria. urine cultures and blood culturesshowed no growth. ekg was atrial fibrillation at a rate of withoccasional pacer spikes and old q-waves in lead iii and avf andan old right bundle-branch block. chest x-ray was negativeexcept for cardiomegaly. ct of the head and neck was negative.left hip and pelvic plain films were negative for fractures.procedures during admission:the patient had an echocardiogram , which showed any ef of 60-65%and moderate-to-severe left atrial enlargement and right atrialelongation.assessment:this is an 83-year-old female with a history of multiple fallswho presented after being found down for approximately 24 hoursin her bathroom in the setting of suspected urinary tractinfection and dehydration.hospital course by problem:1. infectious disease: the patient was found to have a urinarytract infection and was appropriately treated with levaquin forthree days. after treatment , the patient remained afebrile withno leukocytosis. urine and blood cultures were negative , and arepeat urinalysis was negative.2. cardiovascular: the patient had an echocardiogram done whichrevealed an ef of 60-65% and moderate-to-severe left atrialenlargement and right atrial elongation. the patient's mitralvalve was unremarkable. the patient's cardiac enzymes werecycled , and she was found to have a troponin leaksecondary to demand. troponin leak did resolve. serial ekgswere done , and there were no change when compared with the pastekg. she was hypertensive on admission and she was continued onher lasix and lisinopril , which controlled her blood pressure.lasix has been held for the past couple of days due todehydration but may be resumed at discharge.3. endocrine: the patient was taken off of her p.o.hyperglycemic meds while she was an inpatient and placed ondiabetic protocol of nph 6 units b.i.d. and 3 units of aspartq.a.c. with the sliding scale. her blood sugars were wellcontrolled.4. fluids , electrolytes and nutrition: the patient wasdehydrated on admission and given gentle iv fluids. lasix washeld and should be restarted at discharge. however , at rehab , ifthe patient appears to be dehydrated , her lasix should bestopped. the patient's sodium at discharge also went up from142-146. free water is encouraged at the bedside. the patienthad a swallow evaluation to assess for any aspiration. swallowevaluation recommended mechanical soft diet with thin liquids andstated that the patient had no signs of aspiration.5. hematology: the patient has subtherapeutic inr that is nowbeing bridged with lovenox. her goal inr is 2.5-3.5 given herst. jude mitral valve. at discharge , inr is 1.4. the patientshould be continued on lovenox 60 mg daily , which is renallydosed as well as coumadin 5 mg nightly until her inr istherapeutic and then the lovenox may be discontinued.6. psychiatry: on 8/19/06 , the patient became very agitatedand hostile attempting to exit the bed. the patient was given 1mg of haldol and required 4-point restraints. the patient had nofurther episodes of this extreme agitation. she does , however ,have haldol 0.5 mg b.i.d. as needed for agitation. she wasplaced on zyprexa 2.5 mg nightly , which currently is controllingher behavior. the patient was followed by psych during thisadmission. at first , the patient was refusing to go to rehab andshe was clearly not safe to go home. psych did evaluate thepatient to see whether she was capable of making a decision , andpsych did not feel that she had good judgment or insight into herproblems. psychiatry felt the patient needed to go to rehab andafter convincing , the patient is now agreeable to go torehabilitation.7. disposition: the patient is medically stable and now isgoing to the icraig county general hospital for rehabilitation. the patient is tofill out her healthcare proxy performed indicating that her sonand minister will be her healthcare proxy. physical therapy andoccupational therapy has worked with this patient during thehospitalization and both recommend rehabilitation prior toreturning home. the patient is a fall risk and needs to beclosely watched while she is being anticoagulated.physical examination on discharge:the patient's vital signs are stable. she is awake and alert andoriented x2-3. she does have some episodes of confusion , and herspeech is somewhat slurred at times. the respiratory exam isunremarkable.labs at discharge:inr was 1.4.discharge instructions:the patient is to continue lovenox 60 mg subq daily and coumadin5 mg nightly. lovenox may be discontinued when inr is 2.5-3.5.the patient is to follow up with dr. sherill on 10/7 at 2:15 p.m.the patient's blood sugars should be monitored at rehabilitationbefore meals and corrected with a novolog sliding scale , and thepatient should be encouraged to drink free water at the bedsideand her electrolytes should be monitored. the patient's lasixmay be held if she appeared dehydrated.discharge medications:amiodarone 100 mg p.o. daily , norvasc 10 mg p.o. daily , lovenox60 mg subq daily , lasix 20 mg p.o. daily , micronase 2.5 mg p.o.b.i.d. , haldol 0.5 mg iv b.i.d. p.r.n. , novolog sliding scalebefore meals , isordil 20 mg p.o. t.i.d. , lisinopril 20 mg p.o.daily , zyprexa 2.5 mg p.o. nightly , zocor 20 mg p.o. nightly ,ultram 25 mg p.o. q.6 h. p.r.n. , coumadin 5 mg p.o. at bedtimeadvance directives:the patient is a full code. health care proxy is her son ,crupe and her minister.primary care physician:spencer fouse , m.d.escription document: 6-4976103 emssten teldictated by: stookey , aaronattending: abruzzo , eliasdictation id 9197115d: 1/18/06t: 1/18/06