record #986189735468195 | gh | 06974262 | | 6184789 | 11/8/2005 12:00:00 am | pneumonia | signed | dis | admission date: 9/0/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/22/2005attending: aronhalt , odis mdprimary care physician:sandy jefferson malan , m.d.principal discharge diagnosis:pneumonia.secondary diagnoses:1. copd.2. arrhythmia.3. avnrt/svt.chief complaint:on admission was shortness of breath and fever.history of present illness:this is a 73-year-old male with copd , hypertension , chronic renalinsufficiency , chf , with ejection fraction of 60% , pulmonaryhypertension , and arrhythmias who was discharged on 10/9/05 butreturned later in the evening complaining of worsening shortnessof breath and fevers at home. on prior hospitalization , thepatient had presented on 10/28/05 with acute shortness of breathand hypertension with chest pain and was ruled out for mi and pe.in addition , he was treated for minor copd exacerbation withsteroids and nebulizer but not antibiotics and was discharged on10/9/05 at baseline home o2 of 2 liters and was afebrile. atpresentation on 5/21/05 , the patient noted worsening shortnessof breath with increasing oxygen needs and in the ed was found tohave a temperature of 102.4. on chest x-ray , the patient wasfound to have left lower lobe pneumonia that had not been notedon chest x-ray from 10/28/05 and on the pect on 9/13/05 .  thepatient was admitted on 5/21/05 for pneumonia and increasingoxygen requirements.past medical history:past medical history is notable for a. fib with svt not oncoumadin , hypertension , copd with home oxygen at 2 liters ,hyperlipidemia , gout , coronary vascular disease , chronic renalinsufficiency , and type ii diabetes controlled on diet.medications:his medications at time of admission included aspirin 81 mgdaily , allopurinol 100 mg daily , lopressor 50 mg t.i.d. , thepatient was on the prednisone taper , hytrin 2 mg daily , zocor 40mg q.h.s. , flovent , prilosec , and atrovent.allergies:he has allergies to sulfa , lisinopril , and quinine causingplatelet deficiency.social history:the patient had quit cigarette and denied any alcohol or illicitdrug use.family history:noncontributory.physical examination:physical exam at the time of admission was notable for atemperature of 101 , blood pressure 95/53 , oxygen saturation of86% on 2 liters , pulse of 96 , and respiratory rate of 24. thepatient was noted to have crackles with left side being greaterthan right. his cardiovascular exam had normal s1 , s2 regularrate and rhythm with no rubs , murmurs or gallops. hisextremities were notable for trace edema. neurologically , he wasintact.laboratory data:his labs at time of admission was notable for a creatinine of1.7 , and a white cell count of 16 , he had a abg with ph of 7.42 ,paco2 of 35 , pao2 of 52 , and 89% oxygen saturation on 2 liters.his ekg showed t wave inversions in v2-v3 , flat v4 , borderlinefirst-degree av block in sinus rhythm. chest x-ray was notablefor left lower lobe pneumonia.assessment:on assessment , this is a 73-year-old gentleman recentlydischarged for minor copd flare , presenting with acute hypoxemialikely secondary to left lower lobe pneumonia with copd.hospital course by system:1. pulmonary:a. hypoxia: the patient presented with acute and chronichypoxia. the patient initially required short term micu stay fora bipap and was gradually weaned to facemask over 24 hours. onday two of admission , he was weaned to 8 liters and wastransferred to the floor where his respiratory management wascontinued. on 4/7/05 , day 3 of hospitalization , the patienthad been weaned to 5 liters when he began coughing and abruptlydesaturated to 70% oxygen saturation with complaints of shortnessof breath and chest pain and required nonrebreather. the patienthad no ekg changes and a chest x-ray was unchanged from prior on5/21/05 .  the patient was given duoneb and chest pt. he wasstabilized and was able to be managed on the floor andtransitioned back to 8 liters. at time of discharge , he has beenweaned to 4 liters with 91-97% oxygen saturation. the patientdoes continue to desaturate with activities and requires furtherpulmonary rehabilitation including chest pt to remove mucusplugging noted on ct pe from earlier hospitalization in may . b. pneumonia: the patient presented with left lower lobepneumonia. he was started on vancomycin , ceftriaxone , andazithromycin on 5/21/05 .  he had a sputum culture positive formrsa and was therefore continued on vancomycin. he was brieflytransitioned to vancomycin with ceftazidime and flagyl from2/19/05 to 08 , but was switched back to vancomycin withcefotaxime and azithromycin on 8/6/05 .  on day of discharge , hewill be leaving on vancomycin to complete two more days oftreatment for a total 10-day course. in addition , he will bedischarged on levaquin for an additional seven-day course oftreatment for his pneumonia.c. copd: the patient has a history of copd exacerbation and wasmost recently discharged on 10/9/05 for mild copd exacerbationtreated with duoneb and steroid taper. during this hospitalcourse , the patient continued on duoneb treatments as well as asteroid taper. given his acute clinical course in thishospitalization , the patient did not have pulmonary function testperformed but with benefit from pft studies as an outpatient. attime of discharge , the patient is on 4 liters of oxygen and iscurrently on prednisone 5 mg which will be tapered to his homeregimen of prednisone 5 mg every other day.d. hypertension: the patient had been noted to have a pulmonaryartery pressure in 2003 in the 60s but on this admission had anecho at time of admission that noted that his pulmonary arterypressure was now at 98 mmhg. the patient was followed by theinsmotho erout hospital service to assess his pulmonary hypertension.the patient will be followed as an outpatient by themalv medical center service and will likely need right heartcatheterization to assess his right heart function as well as hispulmonary hypertension.2. cardiovascular:a. pump: the patient has congestive heart failure withdiastolic dysfunction with an ejection fraction around 60% asnoted on an echo done on 5/21/05 .  the patient initially had hislasix held due to his creatinine of 1.7 at time of admission.however , given his acute respiratory status , as well as hisincreasing edema during his hospital course , the patient wasagain aggressively diuresed for his chf exacerbation with lasix.at time of discharge , the patient still has trace edema and hiscreatinine has remained at his baseline of 1.1-1.2. the patientwill be discharged on his home lasix regimen of 40 mg p.o.although he required iv lasix on multiple occasions during hishospital course.b. hypertension: the patient has a history of hypertension.overall , his systolic blood pressure remained in the range from110-130s. the patient was on lopressor during his hospitalcourse and had no acute issues regarding his hypertension.c. ischemia: the patient had been ruled out for mi with threesets of negative cardiac biomarkers. he was continued ontelemetry and remained on a regimen of aspirin , beta blockers , aswell as statin during this hospital course.d. rate: the patient has a history of arrhythmias withparoxysmal atrial fibrillation and svts. at last admission on10/28/05 , the patient presented to the ed in svt and hypotensiveand reverted back to normal sinus rhythm after one dose of ivlopressor. the patient was continued on lopressor 50 mg t.i.d.during his hospital course with his duoneb treatments. thepatient did occasionally have heart rate into the 140s consistentwith av nodal reentry tachycardia. these incidences did not lastmore than 2 minutes and the patient was in general asymptomaticfrom these arrhythmias although did occasionally did complain ofsome shortness of breath on occasion during these periods ofarrhythmia. the patient is being continued on lopressor 50 mgt.i.d.3. endocrine: the patient has a history of type ii diabetesthat was under diet control as an outpatient with steroidtreatment for his copd exacerbation. the patient did have hisblood glucose measured regularly three times a day and required aregular insulin sliding scale for his steroid-induced diabetes.with tapering of the steroids , the patient's blood glucose hasgenerally ranged between 100-150 and has required less insulin.while the patient is on steroids , we will continue to monitor hisblood glucose level and cover with insulin as needed. thepatient will follow up with his primary care physician anddiscuss further his overall need for oral hypoglycemic agents.4. renal: the patient has a history of chronic renalinsufficiency with baseline creatinine around 1.1-1.2. atinitial time of presentation , his creatinine was 1.7 and hislasix had been held. however , the patient developed lowerextremity edema with shortness of breath and required lasix forhis chf exacerbation. his creatinine was followed closely duringhis hospital course and with lasix diureses his creatinine didrise slowly to 1.4 , however , the benefits of diureses for chfexacerbation outweighed his chronic renal insufficiency state.we would recommend that the patient follow up with his primarycare physician to monitor his renal state.5. fen: during this hospital course , the patient's electrolyteswere monitored and repleted as needed. he had no acute issuesregarding his electrolytes or nutritional status. however , thepatient should continue on low-salt 2 g sodium diet as well aslimit his fluid intake to 1.5 liters per day.6. id: the patient , at initial time of admission , had atemperature of 101.2 with white cell count as high as 16. he wasfound on chest x-ray to have a left lower lobe pneumonia and wasstarted on a antibiotic course as dictated above in pulmonary.the patient remained afebrile through the extent of this hospitalcourse while on the antibiotic therapy his sputum cultures werepositive for mrsa. at time of discharge , he will be continued onhis antibiotics on vancomycin for an additional two days for atotal of 10-day course and he will also be started on levaquinfor a seven-day course. at time of discharge , the patientremained afebrile with his white cell count of 12.6. the patientis on prednisone , which can slightly his overall white cellcount. the patient is aware that if he had worsening of hissputum production as well as fevers , to seek medical attention.7. heme: the patient had no active issues.8. gi: the patient had regular bowel movements during hishospital course and deferred bowel regimen. he was on protonpump inhibitor for prophylaxis and would be continued on this asan outpatient.prophylaxis:the patient received heparin 5000 units subcutaneous t.i.d.code status:the patient is full code.disposition:the patient will be discharged to rehab for further management ofhis pneumonia as well as for pulmonary rehabilitation withphysical therapy.discharge medications:at time of discharge includes tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n.for headaches , aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , allopurinol 100 mg p.o.daily , lasix 40 mg p.o. q.a.m. , heparin 5000 units subcutaneoust.i.d. , regular insulin humulin sliding scale subcutaneous a.c. ,lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. to be held if pulse is less than 60systolic blood pressures are less than 110. the patient will bedischarged on a prednisone taper. he is currently at 5 mg q.24h.x2 doses and then to be continued on prednisone at 5 mg every 48hours. hytrin 2 mg p.o. daily , vancomycin 1 g iv daily for anadditional two days , zocor 40 mg p.o. q.h.s. , nexium 20 mg p.o.daily , levaquin 500 mg p.o. daily , duoneb at 3/0.5 mg nebulizerq.6h. and levalbuterol 1.25 mg nebulizer q.6h. , as well asalbuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg nebulizer q.2h. p.r.n. for shortnessof breath and wheezing , with these cautioning using albuterol inpatient given history of svt after albuterol treatments.follow-up appointment:the patient has follow up with dr. herbst , his primary carephysician , at lesports bouldbrighmegris green medical center onmonday 6/17/05 at 9.40 a.m. he also has an appointment with dr.hammans , his pulmonologist , on monday , 9/0/05 at 10.40 a.m.and the patient will need to contact the erni hospital serviceto follow up his pulmonary hypertension and right heartdysfunction within the next month , phone number to reach him isby 718-396-2123.escription document: 6-8594857 emssten telcc: berry andres bruson mdsterhasschister noo riecc: hubert darou mdlene ale co arv eydictated by: mcpherren , silasattending: lovelock , grahamdictation id 9526706d: 2/17/05t: 2/17/05[report_end]