record #180079165638453 | rmh | 19083185 | | 092396 | 6/22/1992 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 6/22/1992 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/2/1992diagnosis: coronary artery disease.albinism.history of gout.history of present illness: the patient is a 46 year old koreanmale with a history of coronary arterydisease , who is status post coronary artery bypass grafting andpresented with severe left-sided chest pain radiating to the backand arm occurring 7 hours previously. the patient's history of ccoronary artery disease began in 20 of september , when he developed substernalchest pain and underwent cardiac catheterization showing a 100%right coronary artery occlusion and 80% left anterior descendingocclusion , 70% proximal mid-left anterior descending lesion.angioplasty was attempted , but was unsuccessful. in 1 of august , thepatient underwent a 2-vessel coronary artery bypass grafting by dr.melsheimer at largdon tar county health with a left internal mammaryartery graft to the left anterior descending and right internalmammary artery graft to the posterior descending artery. however ,the patient had persistent incisional-type pain after his coronaryartery bypass grafting , but reported absence of his angina painpost-cabg. the patient underwent an echocardiogram post-cabgshowing normal left ventricular function with no regional wallmotion abnormalities , moderate effusion and mild left atrialenlargement 4.8 centimeters. the patient did well for 2 yearspost-cabg and underwent an exercise tolerance test in 14 of april ,exercising for 10 minutes and 0 seconds , maximum blood pressure170/100 , without chest pain or electrocardiogram changes ,considered to be a negative test. since then , the patient has onlyhad sharp incisional pain not related to exertion , and he suffersno exertional angina and has no exercise limitation. over the pastseveral months , the patient has gradually developed increasingexertional chest pain , increasing in both intensity and frequency ,to the point where it was occurring daily 1 week prior toadmission. the patient had been tried on multiple medications asan outpatient , however , because of issues ofnoncompliance/alternative belief system , it was unclear as to whatmedications the patient was actually taking. on the day ofadmission at 1:30 pm , the patient experienced severe 8 out of 10substernal chest pain radiating to the left arm with numbness andneck tightness , associated with dizziness and numbness on thescalp. the patient had no nausea , vomiting or shortness of breath ,but did suffer pleuritic pain in addition. the pain lasted 30minutes and was somewhat alleviated with rest and sitting in thesupine position on the way to the emergency room. at the line sumharca center emergency room , the patient had worsening ofthe severity of his pain and was treated with sublingualnitroglycerin without relief , then morphine sulfate 4 milligramstimes 2 , lopressor 5 milligrams times 1 , nitro-paste 1 inch withcomplete relief. an electrocardiogram on admission showed normalsinus rhythm , rate 80 , axis normal , no st or t-wave abnormalities ,no q-waves. the patient was admitted to the prorouge en no team.past medical history was notable for albinism , he denies ulcers orgastrointestinal bleeds , he has a history of gout. habits includedformer heavy alcohol use , however , he denies use in the last 6months. the patient smoked cigarettes until 5 years ago.allergies were no known drug allergies. family history wasnegative. social history revealed the patient is an appliancetechnician , he is married with 3 children. medications onadmission revealed that the patient reported using nifedipine-xl 30milligrams by mouth each day , enteric-coated aspirin 1 per day ,occasional indocin and colchicine. his inca medical center prescription also included lisinopril 20 milligrams by mouthper day , and isordil 20 milligrams by mouth 3 times , but thepatient denied taking these.physical examination: the patient was mildly diaphoretic in noapparent distress. temperature was 97 ,heart rate 78 , blood pressure 140/90 , respiratory rate 20 on 2liters of oxygen with 97% saturation. skin was pale with red hair.oropharynx was clear , extraocular movements were intact , pupilswere equal , round , reactive to light and accommodation. carotidswere ii+ bilaterally , there was a sternotomy scar on the chest , noevidence of infection. lungs were clear to auscultation andpercussion without rales. cardiac examination showed a soft s2 , s1was normal , no murmurs , rubs or gallops. abdomen was soft ,nontender , no hepatosplenomegaly. rectal examination showed normaltone , normal prostate , guaiac negative. femoral pulses were i+bilaterally without bruits. extremities showed ii+ pulses in thedorsalis pedis , no edema , the deep tendon reflexes were normal.neurologic examination was nonfocal.laboratory examination: chest x-ray showed clear lungs and nopneumonia or congestive heart failure.the electrocardiogram was as noted above. sodium was 141 ,potassium 4.7 , chloride 112 , bicarbonate 24 , blood urea nitrogen26 , creatinine 1.8 , of note his baseline is 1.4 in 5-90 , glucose85 , white blood cell count 3.59 , platelets 125 , 000 , hematocrit44.5 , prothrombin time 12.7 , partial thromboplastin time 33.9 ,creatinine kinase 1 , 010 with 20 myocardial bands , ldh 222.urinalysis was notable for 4+ proteinuria , no white cells , no redcells , 1 to 2 hyaline casts.hospital course: the initial impression was the patient hadprobable coronary disease and probable unstableangina. he was admitted for intensive cardiac monitoring andcardiac catheterization. the patient was started on heparin at1 , 000 units per hour after bolus and sliding scale nitro-paste ,aspirin and lopressor , and continued on nifedipine. on the firstday of admission , the patient suffered 2 episodes of substernalchest pain and he was taken somewhat emergently to cardiaccatheterization which revealed a patent left internal mammaryartery graft to the left anterior descending , a patent rightinternal mammary artery graft except for small vessel disease inthe graft , and an essentially occluded posterior descending artery.the native coronary arteries showed occluded left anteriordescending proximally with filling from the left anteriordescending , circumflex showed a long 70% proximal lesion at thesecond obtuse marginal branch with 90% distal lesion. the rightcoronary artery was occluded proximally with right-to-rightcollaterals and left-to-right collaterals from the left anteriordescending. the patient was planned for a 2-step angioplasty andwas returned to the floor for stabilization while awaiting hisangioplasty. however , the patient suffered 2 episodes ofsubsternal chest pain despite being on intravenous heparin andintravenous nitroglycerin was initiated and the patient wastransferred to the coronary intensive care unit. the patientremained pain-free until he underwent angioplasty of the rightcoronary artery lesions with a result of 20% residual stenosis. ofnote , the patient's creatinine kinase levels continued to trenddownward with the initial creatinine kinase being 1 , 010 being hismaximal value. the patient had no further chest pain after hisangioplasty , except for the baseline incisional pain which wasunrelated to exertion. the patient was monitored closely for 2days after angioplasty. nitroglycerin was tapered off and thepatient was discharged on 29 of august of note , the 4+ proteinuriawas unresolved at the time of discharge , because of his unstablecourse and transfers between the intensive care unit and the floor ,we were unable to complete a 24-hour urine collection. this issuewill be addressed further.disposition: the patient will be discharged to home. medicationson discharge were aspirin 325 milligrams by moutheach day , lopressor 100 milligrams by mouth twice a day. conditionon discharge was stable. the patient will follow-up with dr. jewel fennel in the tor'ssum healthcareestimated disability is none.dictated by: oscar d. dume , m.d. pollri dr , ra pidsa querattending: monroe b. rozycki , m.d. knoxlanmontpora cleveaj642/27-0batch: 5909 index no. jpymk21y4v mayjunecc: wilford a. harrey , m.d. benhat rd. , ro[report_end]