record #312287974640297 | sh | 35378619 | | 2547554 | 9/27/2006 12:00:00 am | pancreatitis | signed | dis | admission date: 6/21/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 7/27/2006attending: poley , davis rayford henrydate of admission: 5/0/2006.date of discharge: 3/0/2006.history of present illness: this is a 70-year-old female with ahistory of hypertension and blindness who presents with threedays of acute abdominal pain , nausea , and vomiting. shepresented in this manner to her ecmhmc clinic on the date ofadmission , and was sent immediately for an abdominal ct , whichwas noted to have findings consistent with pancreatitis. at thattime , she was transferred to the dama medical centeremergency department. the patient reports that the pain began inher upper abdomen three days prior to admission with radiationthroughout the entire abdomen. she was eating soup when shefirst noted the acute onset of this pain and then had an episodeof emesis. since then , she has not been feeling well , and notbeen eating much , but did not have any further episodes ofemesis. she did have chills overnight , but no sweats or nofevers and no diarrhea. her last bowel movement was three daysprior to admission. the pain was more cramping and burning thansharp pain. she had never had prior episode like this. she is arare drinker , mostly on holidays. has not had any recent viralillnesses , although did have a recent flu shot. did not have anysick contact. in the mano community hospital emergencydepartment , she received 1 liter of normal saline through her iv ,2 mg of morphine iv , and potassium replacement.review of systems: she also endorsed a small amount of anintentional weight loss and denied any chest pain , shortness ofbreath , cough , or symptoms suggestive of fluid overload.past medical history:1. hypertension.2. legal blindness , likely secondary to macular degeneration.3. obesity.4. osteoarthritis.5. status post total hip replacement.6. peripheral neuropathy.7. status post tahbso for fibroids.medications on admission:1. diovan 80 mg p.o. daily.2. premarin 0.9 mg p.o. daily.3. norvasc 10 mg p.o. daily.allergies: lisinopril causes angioedema.social history: the patient lives alone and is retired , butpreviously worked for an epilepsy foundation. she has neversmoked tobacco. does occasionally drink alcohol and has neverused any illicit drugs.family history: she does have a sister with a history of adropped foot , but does not have any family history of diabetes ,coronary artery disease , cancer , or pancreatitis.physical examination on admission: the temperature was 100.3 ,heart rate 95-110 , blood pressure 124-151/60-77 , respiratory rateof 18 , oxygen saturation of 97% on room air. in general , she wascomfortable and in no acute distress. heent , she has chronicinjection on the left conjunctiva , but her oropharynx was clear.pupils were equal , round , and reactive , and extraocular movementswere intact. her neck showed no thyromegaly , no lymphadenopathy ,and her jvp was flat. chest with slight bibasilar crackles.heart with a regular rate and rhythm , and a 2/6 systolic murmurat the right upper sternal border without radiation. abdomen wassoft with decreased bowel sounds throughout and diffuse moderatetenderness to palpation without rebound , guarding , or murphy.extremities showed trace bilateral pitting edema to the mid shinthat were warm and well perfused with 2+ pulses. skin showed norashes. neuro exam was alert and oriented x3 and was grosslynonfocal.laboratory values on admission: significant for chem-7 withpotassium of 2.7 , bicarbonate of 29 with a normal creatinine of0.7. cbc showed a white blood cell count of 11.7 with 74%neutrophils , hematocrit of 36.2 , increased from a baseline of 32 ,platelets of 326 , and mcv was 85. lfts were slightly elevatedwith an ast of 69 , alt of 92 , alkaline phosphatase of 148 , atotal bilirubin of 1.1. amylase was 133 , lipase was 86 , albuminwas 3.7 , and a urinalysis showed 2+ ketones , a specific gravityof 1.112 , no white blood cells , and 2+ squamous epithelial cells.imaging: an ekg showed no change from her prior diffuse t-waveflattening and t-wave inversion with normal sinus rhythm at 96beats per minute. chest x-ray showed tiny bilateral pleuraleffusion and a slightly globular heart that was otherwise normal.an abdominal ct was consistent with pancreatitis withperipancreatic stranding , and there was stones seen in thegallbladder; however , there was no common bile duct dilatationand no pseudocyst or evidence of necrosis in the pancreas.assessment: this is a 70-year-old woman with a history ofhypertension who presented with acute abdominal pain and anabdominal ct consistent with pancreatitis with gallstones in thegallbladder , but without evidence of obstruction.hospital course by problem:1. gi: pancreatitis diagnosed by clinical picture. laboratoryvalues on ct findings on admission with no evidence of pseudocystor necrosis or other surgical complications of pancreatitis.though likely etiology for pancreatitis was gallstone given thatthere were gallstones seen on her abdominal ct and that she hadelevation of some of her lfts. she did go on to have a rightupper quadrant ultrasound to reevaluate. the common bile ductlooked not dilated , but right at the upper limits of normal.given this borderline values she was also sent for mrcp to ruleout cbd dilatation in the event that she may need cholecystectomyin the future. the mrcp showed again no evidence of obstructionof the duct and no evidence of cholecystitis. she was treatedwith aggressive iv fluid hydration for the first several days ofadmission. pain controlled with morphine , and was kept n.p.o.for several days until her pain improved. at this time , her ivfluids were gradually decreased , and her diet was graduallyadvanced as tolerated. by the time of discharge , she wastolerating a regular diet without any recurrence of her abdominalpain , nausea , or vomiting , and was not requiring any further painmedication. her lfts , amylase , and lipase normalized within afew days of treatment early in the hospitalization. she was alsomaintained on iv b.i.d. h2 blocker , and then discharged to homeon p.o. pepcid. given her stated history of heartburn. she wasgiven an appointment to follow up with the th general surgeryclinic for evaluation for likely cholecystectomy and instructedthat this would be her plan of care after discharge.2. cardiovascular. in terms of ischemia , the patient did havesome t-wave flattening diffusely on her ekg; however , had nochest pain. this is likely related to her hypokalemia onpresentation. she did rule out for an mi with 3 sets of negativeenzymes and had no ekg changes or telemetry changes concerningfor ischemia and no bouts of chest pain throughout her admission.in terms of pump , she was aggressively fluid rehydrated , givenher dehydration on admission , and her diagnosis of pancreatitis ,but did not have any signs of fluid overload at any point duringher hospitalization , and was returned to all p.o. diet withoutneed for iv fluids prior to discharge. her blood pressure waswell controlled originally with her home medication of norvascand then with a change to lopressor in order to obtain good ratecontrol as well without bouts of hypertension throughout thisadmission. in terms of rhythm , the patient did have someepisodes of likely atrial fibrillation versus multifocal atrialtachycardia on telemetry early in her admission. these episodeswould last only a few seconds and resolved spontaneously and thepatient did not have symptoms from these. this was thought to belikely related to her acute illness and her hypokalemia onadmission. however , she was started on lopressor for better ratecontrol , which was up titrated as needed with good effect. bythe time of discharge , she had had no events on telemetry forgreater than 36 hours. she was discharged on new medication oftoprol to control her rate and also taking the place of hernorvasc for her blood pressure control.3. id. the patient did have a low-grade temperature onadmission , but this was likely related to her inflammation.blood cultures x2 drawn at the time of admission were negative.the chest x-ray was negative for any growth and finalized beforedischarge. chest x-ray was negative for any evidence ofpneumonia and a urinalysis was negative. she was not started onany antibiotics throughout the admission.4. hematology. the patient has underlying anemia with anunclear baseline hematocrit given her infrequent labs at thisinstitution. her hematocrit was stable between 31 and 36throughout her hospitalization here and recommended that shefollows up with her primary care provider for furtherinstructions on her anemia.5. fluids , electrolytes , nutrition. the patient was initiallyaggressively fluid rehydrated and then changed to maintenance ivfluids. thus , her diet was advanced. potassium and magnesiumwere repeated as needed with electrolytes originally checkedtwice per day until stabilized. she was originally maintainedn.p.o. and then her diet was gradually advanced as her symptomstolerated to a house diet before discharge.6. prophylaxis. the patient was maintained on iv b.i.d. , pepcidfor gi prophylaxis , and lovenox for dvt prophylaxis.7. code status. the patient is dnr/dni.discharge plan: the patient is discharged to home with avisiting nurse to check in on her for medication management ,nutrition , and home safety evaluation. she has followupappointments with her primary care provider , dr. gahring , andalso with the fnh general surgery clinic regarding possiblecholecystectomy. she was instructed not to take her norvasc anymore and to take instead the toprol. also , she was instructed tocall her physician for any new bouts of abdominal pain , fevers ,or any other worrisome symptoms.discharge medications:1. toprol-xl 100 mg per day.2. pepcid 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.3. diovan 80 mg p.o. daily.4. premarin 0.9 mg p.o. daily ( however , it is recommended thather pcp consider weaning off this medication given its knownrisks and recent evidence-based literature , and also given thepossible risk of gallstones of this medication ).escription document: 3-8225552 nffocusdictated by: pascucci , johnieattending: rohdenburg , leonardo oliverdictation id 1071251d: 11/0/06t: 6/10/06[report_end]