record #427771652965318 | sosh | 77275770 | | 902911 | 7/6/1995 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 3/11/1995 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/26/1995principal diagnosis:1. new stroke , right sided weakness and confusion.other diagnoses:2. myasthenia gravis.3. osteoarthritis.4. pernicious anemia.5. hypertension , degenerative joint disease.chief complaint: right sided weakness and confusion.history of present illness: ms. benny is an 83 year old womanwith a history of myasthenia gravis ,arthritis , pernicious anemia and hypertension and degenerativejoint disease with nerve impinging resulting in decreased reflexesin the left lower extremity. she was in her usual state of healthuntil when she woke to go to the bathroom at approximately 2 a.m.on the day of admission. she had difficulty getting up from thesofa where she sleeps and slipped and fell to her knees. becauseshe stated , "her right leg was weak". she started speaking andtalking loudly. her son heard her , came up to help her. at thetime he arrived , she was crawling around on her hands and knees andappeared to be mildly confused. he helped her up and assisted herto the bathroom. she was able to walk with assistance and returnedto bed and did not feel like she needed to call a physician at thattime. she then awoke at approximately six in the morning and wasable to walk without assistance to wash her face and then to eatbreakfast. however , at breakfast , the son noted that she was usingher right hand clumsily cutting pieces of banana onto the floor ,not adequately reaching her mouth to feed herself and had begun touse her knife to eat her cereal. he discussed the problem withher. she agreed that she probably needed to call a doctor aboutthis. she attempted to get out of the chair and again slippedforward because of right leg weakness. she contacted her physicianwho recommended that she be seen at the troitcape medical centerwhen seen there , when leaving , her son noted that she seemed to runinto things on her right side. with entering the car , did not pickup her right leg well. at the scboth community hospital , she was found tohave significant right hand weakness and proximal right legweakness. she was sent to the ist oska rutl memorial health for further evaluation.she denies having had any previous neurologic events similar tothis episode. she has had an episode of dizziness , nausea andvomiting associated with a severe right occipital headache back in0/28 at which time she was evaluated at the hosch reathertage supro grahot clinic and was givendiagnosis of benign positional vertigo which since resolved. atthat time , she had a ct scan which showed only periventricularwhite matter disease as well as an increased soft tissue density inthe region of the sella. an lp at that time revealed no whitecells and red cells which cleared with successive tubes. she alsosix months ago was diagnosed with myasthenia gravis. at that time ,she had the following symptoms: she had difficulty keeping herneck up , difficulty swallowing , her eyelids were drooping. thesesymptoms resolved quickly with tensalon injection. she has beensince started on mestinon and prednisone with good relief and isfollowed by dr. kaushiva at ci hospital for this problemand was initially diagnosed by dr. gerbatz at lametizens health services .with regards to her current episode , she denies having anysymptoms of chest pain , shortness of breath , nausea , vomiting andpalpitations. she has not had any febrile illness , nausea orvomiting recently. she has not had any episodes of a shade comingdown before her eyes.past medical history: 1. myasthenia gravis diagnosed bydr. wilson pozos at hermum medical centerapproximately six months ago. symptoms as described above , goodrelief with mestinon and prednisone. 2. pernicious anemia ,intrinsic factor antibody positive , receives monthly b12injections. 3. spine degenerative joint disease , ls spine ct in3/18 showed most marked deterioration at the l4-l5 vertebra withspondylolisthesis , bilateral foraminal narrowing and moderatespinal stenosis. she has long standing decreased reflexes in herleft leg and some decreased sensation to light touch in her leftfoot. 4. hypertension , has taken reserpine intermittently over thelast 25 years. she has tolerated this well apparently. this is anoutmoded medication however because she has been on it so long , ithas not been discontinued. however , she has been noted to sufferfrom some mild depression. 5. osteoarthritis affecting mostly thehands and feet followed by dr. hiram rodrigus at toncamp hospital 6. long standing difficulty sleeping , takesphenobarbital 15 mg at night prn for this problem for the last 30years 7. frequent uti's. 8. episode of benign positional vertigo ,0/28 as described above. 9. status post hysterectomy , status postovariectomy. 10. some difficulty with rightward gaze and upwardgaze of the right eye noted as long back as 9/13 11. hemorrhoids.12. right kidney 15 mm simple cyst noted incidentally on theabdominal ct.medications at home: prednisone 12.5 mg q.o.d. , daypro 600 mgq day ( arthritis medication ) , mestinon 60mg p.o. q.i.d. , reserpine 0.25 mg q day and phenobarbital 15 mg to30 mg q h.s. ( for sleep ).family history: father and two brothers died in world war ii.mother died of a lung problem.social history: the patient worked as a lab assistant in theco minbalt for preventative medicineand later in pathology. she has been retired since 1968 , currentlyvolunteers at pua medical center in the gift shop on tuesdayafternoon. she lives with her husband and one son at home.exam: the patient is an elderly appearing woman with a livelyvoice and no apparent distress. she gestures much morewith her left hand compared to her right hand. vital signs: temp97.8 , pulse 84 , blood pressure 110/80 , respirations 18. generalexam: heent normocephalic atraumatic. left palpebral fissure isslightly smaller than right. throat without erythema. neck: goodrange of motion. chest: faint end-expiratory wheezes , smallcrackles at the right base. coronary: regular rate and rhythm ,possible faint systolic murmur at the left upper sternal border , nocarotid bruits. abdomen: soft and nontender. extremities: jointdeformities most notable in the hands and feet. joint deformitiesin the hands include the distal interphalangeal joints which isnonconsistent with rheumatoid arthritis , ulnar deviation of thehand is present. neuro exam: mental status alert , oriented tomay , 1995 at teet memorial hospital , clinton/gore ,cannot remember the previous president , picks reagan. language:fluent and nondysarthric , good repetition , reading andcomprehension , poor word generation but is better in term thanattention. patient can span five forward , backwards and missesrely and tune , possibly mild decreased attention. memory: fairfor events leading to hospitalization but some difficulty gettinglogical sequence of occurrences , may partly be due to languagedifficulties. visual spacial: clock shows poor organization ,writes numbers down the middle of the circle. cranial nerves ii:right pupil is slightly larger than left pupil , reactive , visualfields full to confrontation , 3 , 4 , 6 , possible decreased abductionand vertical upgaze of the right eye. however , she denies doublevision. vii: smiles symmetrically. eyebrows symmetric. there ispossibly decreased left nasolabial fold on the left , however , smileis symmetric. viii: hearing intact , finger rubbing bilaterally.ix , x: palate is up bilaterally. turgor of the mouth is 5/5.tongue midline. motor: no drifts , difficulty with fine fingermovement on the right side which is slightly slower than on theleft , has especially more difficulty on the right side initiatingthe movements figuring out what to do. right rapid alternatingmovements of the right hand is slightly slower than the left.power: deltoid , biceps and triceps 5/5 , bilaterally symmetric ,however does not raise her right deltoid as high. wrist extensorson the right are 4+/5 and on the left 5/5. interossei on the right5-/5 , on the left 5/5. lower extremities: iliopsoas , quads , hamsand gastrocs all 5/5 symmetric. ehl possibly slightly diminishedstrength on the right. has increased difficulty with heel to shinon the right leg probably suggestive of proximal right lowerextremity weakness not apparent on cognition testing. sensoriesand light touch and pinprick are grossly intact throughout. nodouble simultaneously stimulation extension , proprioception intactin the feet bilaterally. decreased vibration in the left footcompared to the right foot , reflexes upper extremities 2+symmetric , lower extremities - right lower extremity 3+ knee , 2+ankle. toes downgoing , left , 1+ knee , 1+ ankle , toe downgoing.coordination: finger to nose within normal limits bilaterally.heel to shin slightly worse on the right lower extremity , possiblysecondary to proximal flexor weakness. gait: walks quickly butrequires holding onto assistants for balance. incidentally , shesays it is because she needs shoes for arthritis , marked pronationof the ankle on small steps.labs: sodium 144 , potassium 3.9 , chloride 106 , c02 25 , bun 15and creatinine 0.9 , glucose 125 , calcium 10.5 , magnesium2.0 , b12 was normal. rpr nonreactive. pft's normal. phenobarblevel not detected. tox screen positive for benzodiazepine ( thismay have been due to sedation she received for the ct. however , itis not clear that she received sedation ). hematocrit 34.6 with mcvof 80.6 , platelets 217 , white count 9.05 , polys 73 , 18 lymphs , 7monos , 2 eo and 7 basophils. pt 13.1 , ptt 25.7. ct:periventricular white matter disease , slightly increased densityabove the sella.hospital course: this is an elderly woman with hypertension ,myasthenia gravis and arthritis who presentedwith weakness of her right lower extremity and right hand and someconfusion as evidenced by using a knife to eat her cereal insteadof a spoon. her exam was notable for mildly impaired attention ,possibly confused clock difficulty with handwriting and decreasedstrength of the right hand and likely probably decreased strengthto the right lower extremity. hip flexors is based on the relativedifficulty with heel to shin on the right. old findings on examincluded abnormalities of the right eye muscles , decreased leftpalpebral fissure and sensory findings in the left lowerextremities as well as reflexes. her presentation was consistentwith possible small vessel stroke affecting the arm and leg morethan the face. this could have occurred in the pons area or theinternal capsule. the component of confusion however is lessexplainable based on a deep lesion such as this and raised thepossibility of a small cortical insult. mri showed no territorialstroke , just t2 intense abnormalities in the periventricular whitematter , corona radiata and centrum semiovalle suggestive of smallvessel disease. echo and holter were not suggestive ofcardioembolic disease. echo showed normal lv size , preserved lvfunction with estimated ejection fraction of 80%. there is alsomild lvh , no thrombus was seen. there was aortic sclerosis withmildly regurgitation , mild thickening of the mitral valve leafletswith mild mitral regurgitation and bubble study was negative.holter was sinus rhythm at 54 to 127 beats per minute. occasionalfrequent apb's , 14 atrial couplets , five runs of svt ranging from 3to 10 beats with heart rates 108 to 182 , occasionally only frequentvpb's at all hours and one ventricular couplet. carotidnoninvasive studies showed no significant hemodynamic lesions. ofnote on the mri , the basilar artery appeared to be small caliberand the carotid showed some calcification. on carotid noninvasivestudies , however , there was only minimal plaque in the carotidarteries.in summary , it appears that ms. epperly had a small vessel stroke.she showed some critical improvement during hospital stay and wasable to walk without assistance on the second hospital day. shealso had improved right hand function and appeared to be lessconfused. we recommended starting enteric coated aspirin which sheis to take one per day. in the setting of the acute stroke , we didnot control her blood pressure aggressively. her pressures rangedfrom systolics of 120 to 180 averaging around 140 to 150 withdiastolics usually in the 80's. we have suggested that shediscontinue the use of her reserpine as intermittent use isproblematic especially with this medication and she admits tointermittent use as well as the fact that she has suffered fromsome mild depression that can be associated with reserpine. shewill be started on an alternative blood pressure as an out-patientwith dr. scotton in the next week. we did not wish to start thismedication in the acute setting. she will likely be started on anace inhibitor for blood pressure control. we also suggested thatshe discontinue the use of phenobarbital for sleep as this mightcontribute to confusion.finally , since she is on prednisone and mestinon , we asked thepatient whether she was taking gi prophylaxis. evidently , she onlydoes this intermittently as well. she may be on carefate , however ,we suggested taking an h2 blocker once in the evening and haveprovided her with the prescription for zantac 150 mg q h.s. shewill follow-up with dr. milosch , her primary doctor at ni health as well as dr. salmen at the ont hospitalfor her myasthenia gravis and stroke. she has an appointment withdr. zurovec next week on wednesday.discharge medications:1. enteric coated aspirin 325 mg q day.2. prednisone 12.5 mg p.o. q.o.d.3. mestinon 60 mg p.o. q.i.d.4. daypro one p.o. q day.5. zantac 150 mg q h.s.6. b12 monthly injections.7. to be started on a blood pressure medication as an out-patientby dr. alinecondition on discharge: stable. disposition: home withoccupational therapy visits and blood pressure visits.dictated by: dorian g. marlow , m.d.attending: kurt l. arroyos , m.d. px21wj436/4819batch: 0928 index no. 8ulec1u6r d: 2/9/95t: 11/30/95cc: 1. dr. cohick atcascarnen highway , an balt , tennessee 62276 sythpo hospital2. dr. devoti tletsno chio montegiffbelle general medical center3. dr. zack hunstiger sonplant medical center[report_end]