record #330201121547079 | rmc | 18332143 | | 750943 | 1/29/1997 12:00:00 am | r/o myocardial infarction | unsigned | dis | admission date: 7/29/1997 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 4/16/1997principal diagnosis: coronary artery diseaseprocedures performed: march , 1997 , coronary artery bypass grafttimes three with left internal mammaryartery to left anterior descending artery , saphenous vein graft toposterior descending artery , and saphenous vein graft to diagonalone.history of the present illness: mr. effner is a 74 year-oldgentleman , status post inferiormyocardial infarction in 1995 , and percutaneous transluminalcoronary angioplasty of the left circumflex in july , 1995. thepatient is also status post stenting of the left anteriordescending artery in july , 1996. after that time , the patientcontinued to have chest pain , although with decreased frequency andintensity. the patient did receive ticlid for six to eight weeksfollowing the stenting.the patient presented with increased frequency and duration of hischest and epigastric pain. the patient denied shortness of breath ,orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , diaphoresis , nausea orvomiting.past medical history: significant for coronary artery disease ,hypertension , hyperlipidemia , paroxysmalatrial fibrillation in 1982 , osteoarthritis and diet controlleddiabetes mellitus.allergies: amoxicillin , which gives him arthritis.medications: enteric coated aspirin 325 milligrams p.o. q.d.;imdur 120 milligrams p.o. q.a.m. and 60 milligramsp.o. q.p.m.; cozaar 100 milligrams p.o. q.a.m.; atenolol 50milligrams p.o. q.d.; norvasc 5 milligrams p.o. b.i.d.social history: the patient has no smoking history and rarelydrinks alcohol.physical examination: sclerae are anicteric. oropharynx withoutlesions. carotids 2+ without bruits. theneck is supple. the lungs are clear to auscultation.cardiovascular examination is a regular rate and rhythm with an s4.normal s1/s2. abdomen is soft , nontender , nondistended , withnormal active bowel sounds. extremities are without edema.dorsalis pedis pulse and posterior tibial pulse and femoral pulsesare 2+ bilaterally without bruits in the femoral arteries.neurological examination is without gross focal abnormality.laboratory data: white blood cell count 9.8 , hematocrit 40.8.glucose 188 , creatinine 1.8. ck 40.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the medical servicefor management and evaluation of his angina. heunderwent cardiac catheterization on november , 1997 , demonstrating90% proximal left anterior descending artery stenosis , 99% diagonalone ostial stenosis; circumflex was okay. the right coronaryartery had a mid stenosis of 50%. the patient arrived in thecatheterization lab with mild angina on 200 micrograms per minuteof intravenous nitroglycerin. post catheterization , the patientdeveloped 5/10 chest pain with an increasing pulmonary capillarywedge pressure to 40 and d-waves of 52. increasing thenitroglycerin led to resolution of these changes. the patient hadintra-aortic balloon pump placed via the right femoral artery withreturn of the wedge to approximately a mean of 6 and his pain wasrelieved. the patient returned to the cardiac intensive care unitwhere he underwent aggressive heart rate and blood pressurecontrol. he was evaluated by cardiac surgery and taken to theoperating room on march , 1997 , for coronary artery bypassgrafting times three as described above. the patient wastransferred to the cardiac intensive care unit. electrocardiogramremained unchanged. he was extubated without difficulty. theintra-aortic balloon pump was removed. the patient was noted tohave slight confusion on postoperative day number one and two.lopressor was restarted and the patient was gently diuresed. hischest tubes were discontinued. on postoperative day number three ,the patient was noted to be slightly more confused with left facialdroop and aphasia that resolved with mild left lid lag in the earlyafternoon. the patient was evaluated by neurology. a head ct scanwas performed , demonstrating no hemorrhage or acute stroke. therewas a small left cerebellar hemisphere lesion that was believed tobe consistent with a lesion that was greater than 24 hours old.the patient , however , became progressively encephalopathic. thepatient underwent an echocardiogram and carotid studies , whichdemonstrated no evidence of embolic source. the patient'sexpressive aphasia and facial weakness , however , recurred. thepatient again underwent head ct scan , demonstrating acute rightparietal infarction that appeared cortically based. given therecent intra-aortic balloon pump placement , the aorta could not beruled out as a source for embolus. therefore , heparin was started ,as was coumadin. the goal inr is 2 to 3. also the patient had ahistory of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , and although had noevidence of atrial fibrillation , there was concern over potentialcardiac source for embolization. the patient's aphasia and leftfacial droop improved steadily. he was evaluated by the speech andswallowing service. he had no difficulty with swallowing; however ,it was felt that he would benefit from language therapy in additionto his physical therapy and occupational therapy. the remainder ofthe patient's course was uncomplicated from a cardiac standpoint.his chest x-ray prior to discharge demonstrated very small leftsided effusion without any significant failure.disposition: the patient will be transferred to rehabilitationfor reconditioning and intensive speech , physicaltherapy and occupational therapy. he will follow-up with data medical centercardiology in one to two weeks. he will follow-up with dr. bostin four to six weeks. he will receive physical therapy ,occupational therapy and speech therapy. he must also follow-upwith his internist , as he has been requiring a sliding scaleinsulin dosing , with previously diet controlled diabetes.discharge medications: tylenol #3 one to two tablets p.o. q.3-4h.p.r.n. pain; colace 100 milligrams p.o.t.i.d.; sliding scale insulin; lopressor 50 milligrams p.o. b.i.d.;coumadin , with goal inr of 2-3 , to be dosed q.d. after checking aprothrombin time.dictated by: alec mackedanz , m.d. mk67attending: miles q. poffenberger , m.d. hb70  db357/8781batch: 4367 index no. p4hy4r4viw d: 4/1/97t: 4/1/97[report_end]