record #333151787442918 | ch | 69807993 | | 4517383 | 6/29/2004 12:00:00 am | septic knee | signed | dis | admission date: 6/0/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/6/2004attending: rafael wasko m.d.admitted to the renal service.principal diagnosis:septic arthritis and bacteremia.history of present illness:this is a 54-year-old male with factor ix hemophilia , hcv withcirrhosis and chronic ascites , hiv , diabetes , end-stage renaldisease on dialysis , and history of multiple infections includingmitral valve endocarditis , and bilateral knee replacement andleft hip replacement who was transferred from rehab with apainful right knee in a prosthetic joint which was concerning fora septic joint. he was in his rehab therapy one week prior toadmission when he twisted his knee. he gave him some factor ixat this time with some relief , but in the intervening time , ithad become more painful , red and swollen , and was unable to walkwithout great difficulty where as before he had been toleratingrehab with a walker without incident. in addition , he had atemperature to 103.0 degrees , two days prior to admission and wasgiven vancomycin and gentamicin dialysis the day prior toadmission. the knee , however , continued to worsen , and he has asignificant restriction in range of motion , and he reported tothe emergency department for concern for an infected knee versushemarthrosis. he reported some fatigue and decreased p.o.intake. he did have chills with his fever. he denied anyshortness of breath , chest pain , abdominal pain , nausea , vomitingor bleeding. of note , he has chronic ascites , which for the pastthree months has required paracentesis three times weekly with atotal of 3 to 4 liters taken off each time. in the emergencydepartment , he was loaded with factor ix by the hematologyfellow. the knee was then tapped by orthopedics , whichdemonstrated only some dark blood and minimal fluid. he wasadmitted to the renal service given that he is a dialysispatient.past medical history:1. hemophilia factor ix deficiency.2. hepatitis c virus with cirrhosis and chronic ascites.3. hiv.4. end-stage renal disease , on dialysis.5. diabetes type 2.6. history of mitral valve endocarditis , mssa.7. status post bilateral total knee replacement and left hipreplacement.8. history of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.9. history of upper gi bleed and lower gi bleed.allergies:nafcillin , he has a rash.medications on admission:included epogen , heparin , mitogen with dialysis , neutra-phos ,factor ix with dialysis , lactulose , nephrocaps , carnitor , insulinsliding scale , ciprofloxacin 500 q. sunday , carafate , protonixb.i.d. , amphojel , compazine , and oxycodone p.r.n.social history:he is married , has five children. he has hiv and hcv fromtransfusion. he is not currently working.family history:notable for factor ix deficiency hemophilia.physical exam on admission:the patient was afebrile , slight tachycardiac at 105 , andnormotensive at 120/72 , sating well on room air. general: hewas cachetic and chronically ill appearing , alert and oriented ,and comfortable. neck veins were flat. cardiovascular exam wasnotable for regular rate and rhythm. normal s1 , s2 and a 3/6holosystolic murmur at the apex. chest was notable for mildbibasilar crackles , otherwise clear. abdomen was distended ,notable for flank dullness. he did have normal active bowelsounds and a peritoneal port on the right. extremities werenotable for being wasted , warm with absent pulses. right kneewas erythematous , edematous , and extremely tender to palpation.labs on admission:notable for potassium of 5.2 , bun of 42 , and creatinine of 4.2.his liver function panel was within normal limits. his whiteblood cell count was 10.4 , hematocrit 36.6 , and platelets332 , 000. his pt was 15.4 , ptt 62.3 , and inr was 1.2. x-ray ofhis right knee demonstrated an effusion and no fracture. a chestx-ray demonstrated a small left pleural effusion and atelectasis.his erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 70.operations and procedures:on 0/2/04 , he had an incision and drainage of his right knee bydr. moelter of orthopedics. on 7/30/04 , he had ahemodialysis-tunneled catheter placed by interventionalradiology. on 2/16/04 , he had a picc line placed at thebedside , and he underwent hemodialysis.hospital course by problem:1. musculoskeletal and infectious disease: he was admitted tothe renal service for treatment of septic arthritis of his rightknee , which was a prosthetic joint. blood cultures were positivefor methicillin-sensitive staphylococcus aureus , which was theorganism , which had caused his prior endocarditis. he underwentincision and drainage of his right knee by orthopedic service ,dr. majka , on 0/2/04 .  in addition , his hemodialysis catheterwas pulled on 2/22/04 because it too had grown blood culturespositive for mssa. he had no further positive cultures once hisdialysis catheter was pulled except for 1/4 bottles coag-negativestaph from 1/16/04 , which was attributed to contamination. hewas treated with vancomycin and gentamicin just after dialysis.he received a total of seven days of gentamicin and was on day#14 of a six-week course of vancomycin upon discharge. he hadsome low-grade temperature during admission but only onetemperature spiked to 101 degrees. both orthopedics andinfectious disease services were consulted and followed himthroughout admission. orthopedics and infectious diseaseconsultant determined that if any blood cultures became positiveafter removal of the hemodialysis catheter , he would need toreturn to the or for joint exploitation. given his negativeculture this did not occur and he is discharged with prostheticjoint in place. the joint fluid culture as well synovial tissueand synovial culture from his i&amp;d were positive for mssa.surveillance cultures were negative for seven days following theprocedure. he was instructed to continue vancomycin for a totalof six-week course and to follow up with infectious disease intwo months. he was cleared for physical therapy and returned torehab by orthopedics with instructions to remove his suturesthree weeks after discharge and to follow up with orthopedic , dr.glader , as indicated by his symptom.2. hematology: he has factor ix deficiency hemophilia for whichhe normally takes q. week or twice weekly factor ix beforedialysis. during admission , he was initially loaded with factorix in the emergency department for arthrocentesis. hematologywas consulted and they recommended b.i.d. factor ix 4000 unitsduring admission while the situation regarding surgery and lineplacement was unclear. he continued receiving b.i.d. factor ixuntil the day of discharge as his last line was placed on thatday. he was to return to factor ix before dialysis only uponreturn to rehab and was to follow up with dr. tutson , hisprimary hematologist. in addition , he received erythropoietinwith dialysis.3. renal: he has end-stage renal disease and is on hemodialysismondays , wednesdays , and fridays. he continued this regimenwhile he had his hemodialysis catheter in place , however , whenthat was removed , he was dialyzed to a temporary femoral arterycatheter and only as clinically indicated. he was dialyzed mostrecently on 7/30/04 after his dialysis catheter was replaced byinterventional radiology , and he should return to his monday ,wednesday , friday schedule. he was continued on his home renalsupplements. he was continued on erythropoietin with dialysisand midodrine.4. gi: he has hcv cirrhosis and chronic ascites and history ofspontaneous bacterial peritonitis as well as upper and lower gibleed. he had no evidence of bleeding during admission. theoccult blood was negative x3. he additionally had no evidence ofinfection or spp. he was taped by a peritoneal port thriceweekly with removal of 3 to 4 liters of fluid each time. thefirst set was sent for culture , which was negative.additionally , he was continued on his b.i.d. proton pumpinhibitor given his history of upper gi bleed.5. endocrine: he has diabetes for which he was covered withregular insulin sliding scale upon admission. given someelevated blood sugars up to 300s and the risk of bacteremia , hewas started on nph and was discharged on 10 q.a.m. and 5 q.p.m.with continued regular insulin sliding scale for added coverage.6. prophylaxis: he was not anticoagulated despite hisimmobility. given his hemophilia , he was placed on ted hose andpneumoboots and continued on his ppi.7. fen: nutrition was consulted because of his low albumin andgeneral cachexia. he was placed on a 1.5 liters fluidrestriction and 2 g sodium restriction given his chronic ascites.he is also on a diabetic diet and renal diet. nutritionrecommended supplementing with enlive and ensure , and the patienthad adequate oral intake during admission. he was not given ivfluids.disposition:he has full code. he was discharged in stable condition to rehabwith instructions to follow up with his new primary care doctor ,dr. ezequiel strawn , orthopedics as needed by symptoms with hisregular hematologist , his regular renal physician , and withinfectious disease , and to continue antibiotics for a six-weekcourse.physical examination at discharge:it was unchanged from admission with a cardiac exam notable forregular rate and rhythm and a 3/6 holosystolic murmur at theapex. bibasilar rales on pulmonary exam. distended , nontenderabdomen. his right knee was notable for a clean suture line withno warmth , erythema or swelling.discharge medications:tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. , amphojel 30 ml p.o. t.i.d.one-half hour before meals , ciprofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q. week onsundays , to be changed to q. monday , wednesday , friday when hissix-week course of vancomycin was finished on 11/10/04 , flexeril5 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. for muscle spasms , benadryl 25 mg p.o.q.h.s. p.r.n. , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , nph insulin 10 unitsq.a.m. , 5 mg q.p.m. , regular insulin sliding scale. no coverageblood sugar less than 25 for blood sugar 125 to 150 , 2 units , 151to 200 , 3 units , 201 to 250 , 4 units , 251-300 , 6 units , 301-350 ,8 units , 351-400 , 10 units , and notify a physician if blood sugaris greater than 400 , lactulose 30 ml p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. totitrate two to three bowel movements per day , milk of magnesia 30ml p.o. q.d. p.r.n. , neutra-phos two packets p.o. q.d. ,simethicone 80 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. , carafate 1 g p.o. q.d. ,vancomycin 1 g iv after dialysis and to be redosed for levelsless than 20 , to complete a six-week course , which will befinished on 11/10/04 , compazine 10 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. ,nephrocaps one tab p.o. q.d. , miconazole nitrate 2% powdertopical to the groin , carnitor 0.5 g p.o. t.i.d. , midodrine 10 mgp.o. one hour before dialysis , esomeprazole 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,maalox tablets chewable one to two tabs p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. , andepogen 4000 units q. monday , wednesday , friday with dialysis.the patient was discharged in stable condition to nixry health care for continued rehabilitation. he wasinstructed to follow up with the infectious disease service intwo months , and he was call 250-556-9028 for an appointment withdr. royal tartsah at mecrant win memorial hospital for newprimary care physician on 2/30/04 at 9:20 a.m. , with dr. pujolof hematology in one month , and with dr. sturmer of orthopedics asneeded by return of symptoms.discharge instructions for rehabilitation:1. continue vancomycin 1 g iv after dialysis until 11/10/04 .  heshould be redosed for any vancomycin level less than 20.2. he should increase his ciprofloxacin to 500 mg p.o. q.monday , wednesday , friday after 11/10/04 when his vancomycin isfinished.3. he should receive dialysis on monday , wednesday , and fridayas he was before admission.4. he should have paracentesis on tuesdays , thursdays , andsaturdays via port with an estimated removal of 3 to 4 liters asdictated by the patient's symptoms.5. he should have suture removal from his right knee three weeksafter his operation on 0/28/04 . 6. he should have a dry sterile dressing change q.d. to hisright knee.7. he should receive factor ix mononine 50 units per kg beforeeach dialysis with a goal factor ix of greater than 50% activity.8. he should have follow up with infectious disease , his pmd ,renal , hematology , and orthopedics as needed.9. he should have enlive b.i.d. and ensure q.d. as nutritionalsupplements.10. his picc line on 2/16/04 , it is good position and should bediscontinued after his vancomycin course.disposition:the patient is full code.escription document: 6-8943893 emssten telcc: derick garland loseke , mdergli hospitalivialecc: cortez wipfli m.d.jeffro buba caen hospitallakeel houwayne greendictated by: majocka , wernerattending: mohd , erroldictation id 9619724d: 2/16/04t: 2/16/04[report_end]