755646616fih189431568716/8x170229724/13/1994 12:00:00 ammetastatic adenocarcinoma of lung primary .unsigneddisreport status :unsignedadmission date :4/13/94discharge date :4/20/94date of birth :9/9/1930 .principal diagnosis :metastatic adenocarcinoma of lung primary .associated diagnosis :metastatic brain tumor .history of present illness :mr. days presented in september 1993 with a dry cough , and left arm / hand paresthesias .workup at that time showed a large right upper lobe lung mass , infiltrating positive c4-c6 vertebrae , and appeared to be threatening the spinal cord .mr. days underwent a biopsy and stabilization procedure of the c4 through c6 veretebrae by drs. lockstrip and rekefreiermin of neurosurgery .the biopsy was consistent with poorly-differentiated mucinous adenocarcinoma , thought to be lung primary , given his chest x-ray findings and smoking history .mr. days subsequently underwent external x-ray therapy to the cervical spine for palliation .bone-scan and abdominal computerized tomography scan in october 1993 showed metastatic disease diffusely in the ribs , cervical , and lumbar spine , pelvis , and femur , and metastases to the liver and left adrenal gland .in december 1993 , mr. days underwent brachiotherapy of his right upper lobe mass .since that time , his disease has progressed with increasing metastases , at least his pelvis and spine .compression fractures of t12 and l3 were noted in february 1993 .mr. days has also developed a slowly-progressive microcytic anemia , with elevated ferritin and normal b12 and folate levels over the past several months , thought secondary to probable bone marrow involvement of his tumor .he also has apparently developed a mild-moderate persistent leukocytosis over the past 1-2 months , progressively higher neutrophil percentages , but without clear evidence of systemic infection .he also developed rather regular night sweats and fevers , which have been attributed to tumor fevers .on 03/23/94 , mr. days presented to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital emergency ward for significant sacral decubitus ulcer , which was debrided by surgery .they recommended a ten-day course of keflex , which he completed , and b.i.d. wet-to-dry dressing changes .he was ppd-negative , with positive control , back in september 1993 , but that needs to be verified .he received a pneumovax in 09/93 .on the day of admission , the patient presented with chief complaint of difficulty focusing , walking , and coordinating his movements for the past three days .the patient 's family initially attributed this to overmedicaion with tylenol iii .he denied any nausea , vomiting , unusual fevers or rigors , or acute confusional state .past medical history :his adenocarcinoma is outlined above .2. hypertension , controlled with nadolol .3. constipation , rather severe , secondary to pain medications .medications on admission :ms-contin , 30 mg. , b.i.d. , nadolol , about 350 mg. , qd , tylenol no. iii , prn , multivitamins , and five stool softeners .his initial blood gas was 47/37/7.47 on room air , with corresponding o2 saturation of 88% .his hematocrit on admission was 28.6 , with a white count of 16.4 , and platelet count of 313 .his differential included 92% polys , 2% bands , one lymphocyte , 4 monocytes , and one eosinophil .his electrolytes were normal , with a sodium of 136 , potassium of 4 , chloride of 102 , bicarbonate was 24.3 , bun of 24 , and creatinine of 1.1 .his glucose was 166 .his calcium was 9 , his phosphate was 3.4 , his magnesium was 2 , his albumin was 1.8 , his globulin was 4.9 , his ldh was 422 , his sgot was 43 , his alkaline phosphatase was 424 , his total bilirubin was 1.2 , and direct bilirubin was 0.6 .his chest x-ray on admission compared to january 9 , 1993 :there was increase in volume loss in the right upper lobe .there was mild patchy consolidation consistent with collapse or infection .the right hemidiaphragm was more elevated , and new left-sided metastases were evident .head computerized tomography scan revealed a 1 cm. lesion with surrounding edema and a mild midline cyst in the right occipital lobe , consistent with a metastatic lesion .there may be two additional smaller metastases present .physical examination :this is a 63 year old cachectic , ill-appearing man , in mild respiratory distress .his temperature was 96.4 , his blood pressure was 178/72 , his pulse was 86 , and respirations were 23 .his head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination was normocephalic , atraumatic , pupils equal , round , reactive to light and accommodation , extra ocular movements were intact , fundi were benign , without papilledema , and no lesions .his oropharynx was benign .his neck was supple , no lymphadenopathy , no jugular venous distention , his carotids were 2+ , without bruits , and his neck was without any masses .his lungs had some right upper lobe wheezing , and rhonchi , with an increased i to e ratio , and expiratory wheezes throughout .on cardiac examination , he was regular rate , normal sl and s2 , no murmurs or extra heart sounds .his abdomen :he did have bowel sounds , soft , nontender , nondistended , no hepatosplenomegaly .extremities :he had 2+ pulses throughout , no clubbing , cyanosis or edema .his skin :he did have a decubitus ulcer over the sacrum , with no evidence of supra-infection .neurologically , he was alert and oriented times three , with cranial nerves ii / xii grossly intact .strength was 5/5 throughout , except for left lower extremity , 4/5 weakness secondary to hip pain .his sensory examination was grossly intact .there were no cerebellar deficits .his reflexes were normal , with downgoing toes bilaterally .the patient 's hospital course was significant for a chest computerized tomography scan , the impression which showed :1. marked interval progression of metastatic carcinoma of the lung , with chest wall , bony , pulmonary , hepatic , and vertebral metastases , as above .2. interval development of large bilateral pleural effusions , larger on the right .3. compression fracture of t12 vertebral body .this may or may not be pathologic .the patient also had a head computerized tomography scan done , which showed the new metastasis , as mentioned above .the patient was begun on palliative x-ray therapy to the brain and to the right pelvis , where he also has metastases .the patient was started on intravenous dilantin for seizure prophylaxis and decadron to prevent cerebral edema in the setting of his radiation treatments .at the time of discharge , the patient will require ten more treatments to the left hip , and nine to the brain .also of note , the patient was empirically treated during this hospitalization for a possible post-destructive pneumonia .the patient was unable to bring up sputum throughout this hospitalization , with an increased white count , with a left shift on admission , and a chest x-ray , suggestive of a partial collapse of the right upper lobe , and it was thought to empirically treat this patient with antibiotics .the patient 's sacral decubitus was followed throughout by surgery throughout his hospital course .this hospital course was also significant for having a family meeting on the 15th of april to decide what further treatments would maximize the patient 's quality of life .the patient and the family opted for palliative x-ray therapy and home hospice .the patient was discharged with full knowledge of his grave prognosis , to go home with home hospice .doctors discharge orders :decadron , 2 mg. , po , q6h , to be tapered , tylenol with codeine , 1 tablet , po , t.i.d. , dilantin , 100 mg. , one tablet , po , t.i.d. , colace , 100 mg. , 1 tablet , po , t.i.d. , nadolol , 40 mg. , one tablet , po , qd , carafate , 1 tablet , po , q.i.d. , dilaudid , 2 mg. , one tablet , po , q3-4h , dulcolax , 1 tablet , po , qd , ms-contin , 45 mg. , one tablet , po , qam , and ms-contin , 60 mg. , po , qpm , and amoxicillin , 500 mg. , q.i.d.the patient is to follow up with his primary m.d. , dr. besti kotebreun , and with the radiation oncologist , dr. skizeis for further x-ray therapy .ellot days , m.d.tr :jmr / bmotdd :4/16/94td :04/17/94cc :stat discharge summary .copy to dr. ellot days .