record #269372417827045 | tcuomc | 19946105 | | 2969443 | 0/2/2005 12:00:00 am | syncope , left shouldre fracture | signed | dis | admission date: 0/2/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/3/2005attending: machi , colton mdhistory of present illness: the patient is a 68-year-old femalewith history of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ,hypertension , hyperlipidemia with a known ef of 25 to 30% andhistory of graves disease who presents to us after a fall at homewith a chief complaint of left shoulder pain. the patient stateson the morning of admission , she had a slight headache anddizziness , but felt better after eating breakfast , wasapproaching her daughter , answered the doorbell when she fell.she denies associated shortness of breath , chest pain ,lightheadedness , nausea , vomiting , warmth. the patient statesshe was wearing shoes , did not believe she tripped. no historyof seizure activity , postictal state , or loss of bowel or bladderincontinence. after the fall , she complained of left shoulderpain with movement. the patient denies loss of consciousness ,head trauma. started a new medication , gabapentin , this week.in the ed , she was found to have a fracture of her left surgicalhumeral neck and was given tylenol and toradol for pain. catscan revealed no acute events.past medical history: significant for insulin-dependent diabetesmellitus with the last a1c of 11.9 , known retinopathy andneuropathy , hypertension , history of hypertensive encephalopathy ,history of graves disease , chf , with a known ef of 25 to 30% ,concentric lvh , and pulmonary pressures of 52 plus right atrialpressure , dermatomyositis , arthritis , cataracts , b12 diffeciency ,stress urinary incontinence , status post total abdominalhysterectomy , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy , previous syncopalepisode in 2001 where she underwent a bruce protocol , stressmaybe with poor exercise tolerance with 50% of heart rate andstopped secondary to fatigue.allergies: the patient is allergic to penicillin , aspirin ,codeine , and simvastatin.medications on admission: include metformin 400 mg q.d. , insulin80 units subcutaneously q.h.s. , atenolol 100 mg ,hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg , vasotec 40 mg , pravastatin 20 mg ,neurontin 300 mg t.i.d. , amitriptyline 10 mg q.h.s. , and folate.social history: the patient lives alone in the first floor ofher apartment with no stairs. she is a 30-pack-year smoker , quitapproximately 30 years ago. no alcohol use.family history: no pertinent family history.review of systems: negative. no fever , chills , nausea ,vomiting , or changes in appetite. no bright red blood per rectumor black tarry stools. no cough. no dysuria or urinaryfrequency. no constipation or diarrhea.admission physical examination: the patient was afebrile. heartrate in the 50s. bp 130/70 , respiratory rate 16 , satting 99% onroom air. the patient was in no acute distress , pleasant ,complaining of left arm pain with movement. mucous membranes aremoist. no lymphadenopathy. no thyromegaly. oropharynx isclear. chest is clear to auscultation bilaterally aside fromsome bilateral wheezes in the bases. the patient wasbradycardic. s1 and s2. distant heart sounds. no murmurs ,gallops , or rubs appreciated. abdomen is obese. soft ,nontender , and nondistended. positive bowel sounds. extremitiesexam significant for left shoulder extreme tenderness topalpation and movement with noticeable edema. pulses are intactbilaterally. skin is clean , dry , and intact. no rashes. thepatient is alert and oriented x3. cranial nerves ii through xiiare grossly intact , moving all extremities. no pronator drift.reflexes are symmetric.laboratory data: significant for potassium of 5.8 , creatinine of1.0 , 0.8 baseline. wbc 10 , hematocrit 34.5. cardiac enzymesnegative x1. tsh of 27 , t3 109 , t4 4.9. chest x-ray is clear ,notable for cardiomegaly.impression: the patient is a 58-year-old female with history ofinsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , hypertension ,hyperlipidemia , with an ef of 25 to 30% , graves disease , presentsstatus post fall , denies loss of consciousness. syncope workupin ??___?? rule out myocardial infarction , arrhythmia ,cerebrovascular accident , transient ischemic attacks. inaddition , the patient with left surgical humeral neck fractureand positive ua. etiology of syncope unclear. the patient wasbradycardic on admission , may have been over beta-blocker , alsowith positive urinary tract infection. in addition , the patientexperienced multiple episodes of a.m. hyperglycemia , which mayhave been contributing.plan by systems:1. cardiovascular:a. ischemia: the patient completed a complete rule out miworkup with negative enzymes and no ekg changes. the patient wasmaintained on beta-blocker , ace inhibitor , and statin. noaspirin given secondary to allergy. the patient had a repeatecho on march , 2005 , which showed an ef of 45% and mildglobal hypokinesis and left atrial enlargement.b. rhythm: significant for bradycardia. lopressor was startedinhouse in order to better titrate pulse rate. the patient waschanged to coreg 6.25 mg b.i.d. and titrated to 12 mg b.i.d. ,well tolerated. no further episodes of bradycardia.2. renal: baseline creatinine 0.8. creatinine on admission1.0 , remained stable , no issues.3. infectious disease: positive ua on admission. completed3-day course of ciprofloxacin. no chronic complaints.4. fluids , electrolytes , and nutrition: the patient wasmaintained on ada low-salt cardiac diet , repeat it with potassiumand magnesium scales. hematocrit remained low at 34.5 , butremained stable. the patient was maintained on folate and b12.the patient should continue workup of anemia as an outpatient.5. endocrine: initially continued lantus 80 unitssubcutaneously q.h.s. with insulin sliding scale. however ,secondary to a.m. hyperglycemia , changed lantus to q.a.m. andadded q.a.c. short-acting insulin for better control. thepatient was not restarted on metformin as an inpatient. inaddition , pfts revealed a mild hypothyroidism with low free t4.the patient was started on synthroid , and she should continue tofollow thyroid function tests as an outpatient. orthopedic wasconsulted regarding humerus fracture. the patient was splintedby ortho , and she should follow up in clinic as indicated. paincontrol was initially given allergy to codeine. trial of aroundthe clock tylenol alternating with lidoderm patch were effective.the patient also received physical therapy as an inpatient andwill benefit from continued pt at rehabilitation. followup isscheduled with ortho in the discharge summary.6. the patient was continued on amitriptyline q.h.s. forprophylaxis. the patient was given nexium and lovenox.discharge condition: stable.discharge medications: tylenol 500 mg p.o. q.4h. , amitriptyline10 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia , dulcolax 10 mg p.o. q.d.p.r.n. constipation , b12 50 mcg p.o. q.d. , colace 100 mg p.o.b.i.d. , vasotec 40 mg p.o. q.d. , folate 1 mg p.o. q.d. , hctz 25mg p.o. q.d. , insulin regular sliding scale q.a.c. , lactulose 30mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. constipation , synthroid 50 mcg p.o. q.d. ,magnesium gluconate sliding scale , milk of magnesia 30 mg p.o.p.r.n. constipation , senna 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d. , pravastatin 20mg p.o. q.h.s. , neurontin 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. , imdur 60 mg p.o.q.d. , lovenox 40 mg subcutaneously q.d. , ultram 50 mg p.o. q.6h.p.r.n. pain , coreg 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , nexium 20 mg p.o. q.d. ,insulin glargine 80 units subcutaneously q.a.m. , lidoderm 5%patch topical q.d. , novolog 4 units subcutaneously a.c.followup appointments: the patient has a followup appointmentwith ortho trauma clinic on february , 2005 , at 8:30. afterdischarge from rhamc , the patient should schedule a pcp followupappointment.any questions may be answered by dr. dustin aulbach .escription document: 6-1322461 sssten telcc: primary care physiciandictated by: medich , luigiattending: bolich , erniedictation id 5358751d: 4/26/05t: 4/26/05[report_end]