record #370707341782812 | imc | 82129084 | | 075826 | 8/27/1992 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 8/27/1992 report status: signeddischarge date: 8/26/1993history of present illness: the patient is a 53-year-old righthanded man who was admitted to theneurology service on 11/6/92. he has a two week history of rightsided slowly improving. the neurology service felt that thefindings on exam was most consistent with cervical disc disease andthey asked neurosurgery to consult. in brief , the patient's chiefcomplaint is right sided weakness. the patient was in his usualstate of health until approximately three and a half weeks prior toadmission. he noted pain in his right shoulder over four to fivehours , the pain increased. he also noted numbness in his righttoes. his right hand was weak as well and he had difficultyholding a cup. conservative management failed , i.e. , bedrest. hecame to the emergency room at the request of his local doctor andwas admitted to the neurology service. while here , on decadron ,motrin and flexeril , he noted some improvement. of note , he fellflat on his face first on 3/16/92 and sustained a sprained ankle.at that time , he had no back or neck pain. while in house , he feltthat he could walk three times around the ingnorf at that point , heexperienced weakness and numbness on the fourth trip around. hehas also noted some urgency since the onset of his neck pain. hehas normal peroneal sensation except for the transient occurrencesof some saddle distribution of abnormal sensation. he hasconstipation which has now improved. past medical history: l4-5laminectomy in 1970 and 1982. in 1980 , he had a perforated ulcer.in 1982 , he had surgery for a hiatal hernia. in 1983 , he had acholecystectomy. in 1984 , he had a partial gastrectomy andcolectomy for swallowing a toothpick. he has a history of anxietyattacks related to highway driving. he is a past smoker , stoppedseven years ago after three packs per day times 40 years. historyof alcohol abuse but does not drink now. he has no cardiac ,respiratory or gi disturbances.physical examination: on admission revealed the patient to beafebrile. vital signs were stable. generalexam was within normal limits. he had full range of motion withincreased pain with extension of his neck. he was alert andoriented with a normal mental status. speech was fluent with nodysarthria. cranial nerves were entirely within normal limits. hehad no pronator drift. on the left he was 5/5 throughout. on theright he had 5- strength in his biceps , triceps , wrist extensorsand intrinsics. hip flexors were 4/5. knee flexors and kneeextensors were 4/5. he was essentially 5/5 throughout the rest ofhis lower extremities. his reflexes were 1-2+ in his upperextremities and approximately 3+ at the knees with downgoing toes.he had 3-4 beat clonus on the right. coordination was okaybilaterally. gait tested revealed a tendency to fall withdecreased ability to weight bear on the right. sensory examrevealed decreased sensation in the right hand and the last threedigits of the left hand. he had no subjective numbness in hisright leg , on the dorsum of his left foot , he had decreasedsensation with a cut off before the toes.mri was a poor quality study which showed c5-6 and c6-7 disc bulge.cat scan showed severe stenosis of c6-7 with osteophyte , moderatestenosis at c5-6.hospital course: the patient was seen by dr. dubey who agreedwith the plan for c5-6 and c6-7 laminectomies.he was taken to the operating room on 0/8/93. preoperativediagnosis with cervical stenosis with myelopathy. postoperativediagnosis was the same. the procedure was c4-5 , c5-6 , c6-7laminectomy. he had a hemovac placed postoperatively. theestimated blood loss was less than 100 cc. postoperatively , he didvery well. he had good upper extremity strength which seemed toimprove. he was seen by physical therapy. he had a slightlyswollen calf and had noninvasive vascular studies of his lowerextremities which were negative. he did , however , note someshooting pain in his left lower extremity. his wound was clean andhealing well. he was out of bed with a walker. the plan was fordischarge home. he may need further evaluation of his lumbar spineat some point but he seems to be doing well with percocet only.principal diagnosis: cervical spondylosis status post multiplelevel cervical laminectomies.history of lumbar disc disease.history of alcohol and tobacco abuse ,none currently.perforated ulcer.hiatal hernia.status post cholecystectomy , gastrectomyand colectomy.anxiety attacks.disposition: medications: on discharge included colace ,klonopin , flexeril and percocet. he will follow-upwith dr. mcnail in one to two weeks.dictated by: rocco tandon , m.d. zh67attending: pedro badour , m.d. qy35vp775/4731batch: 4920 index no. tqzqoxvfe d: 6/21/93t: 0/16/93[report_end]