record #379085835272036 | cmc | 59966848 | | 1136768 | 7/15/2004 12:00:00 am | chestpain | | dis | admission date: 8/24/2004 report status:discharge date: 6/27/2004 discharge orders kean , chung 471-48-11-1stam mont aservice: cardischarge patient on: 11/23/04 at 03:00 pmcontingent upon not applicablewill d/c order be used as the d/c summary: yesattending: piacenza , weldon m. , m.d.code status:full codedisposition: homedischarge medications:albuterol inhaler 2 puff inh tid prn shortness of breathdiltiazem sustained release 120 mg po qdfood/drug interaction instructionavoid grapefruit unless md instructs otherwise.number of doses required ( approximate ): 1lasix ( furosemide ) 120 mg qam; 80 mg qpm po 120 mg qam80 mg qpmlevoxyl ( levothyroxine sodium ) 125 mcg po qdniferex-150 150 mg po bidflovent ( fluticasone propionate ) 44 mcg inh bidlipitor ( atorvastatin ) 10 mg po qdnexium ( esomeprazole ) 20 mg po qdprilosec ( omeprazole ) 20 mg po qddiet: house / 2 gm na / low saturated fatlow cholesterol (fdi)activity: resume regular exercisefollow up appointment( s ):please schedule an appointment to see your primary care physician in 1-2 weeks ,you will be contacted with an appointment with joshua lynchj ( a -chf ) ,you will be contacted with an appointment for a stress test at cuhamc ,allergy: doxycycline hyclateadmit diagnosis:chest painprincipal discharge diagnosis ;responsible after study for causing admission )chestpainother diagnosis;conditions , infections , complications , affecting treatment/staychf with diastolic dysfunction ( congestive heart failure ) htn( hypertension ) hyperlipidemia ( hyperlipidemia ) gout( gout ) anemia ( anemia ) ovarian cyst ( ovariancyst ) migraine ( migraine headache ) asthma( asthma ) s/p tubal ligation ( s/p tubal ligation ) hypothyroidism( hypothyroidism ) s/p thyroid resection ( s/p thyroidectomy ) hematuria( hematuria ) obesity ( obesity ) osa ( sleep apnea )operations and procedures:noneother treatments/procedures ( not in o.r. )exercise stress test 0/0/04brief resume of hospital course:51 yo w/ h/o diastolic dysfunction on lasix and no known cad whopresents with subacute sx of worsening chf and one day ofintermittent chest presure. she describes a substernal pressure that isrelieved after 10-15 minutes with burping. she also notes mildassociated sob. she has had similar pain in past several times permonth , now occuring more frequently. pt has also noted worseningexercise tolerance , orthopnea , and pnd in last week. she states shehas been compliant with meds but missed 0/7 pm lasix dose. also noteseating 4 meals of chinese food in past week.pmh: chf with diastolic dysfunction , htn , high cholesterol , gout ,anemia , migraine headaches , asthma , hypothyroidism s/p resection ,obesity , osa not on therapymeds: same as discharge list with exception of prilosec which is newallergy: e'mycin --&gt; gi upsetfhx: mother had mi at 49 yo ,shx: no tobaccoexam:vs: 97.0 86 117/77 16 100% ra.gen: nadneck: jvd 10chest: ctacv: rrr s1 , s2abd: soft , nt , nd , bowel sounds presentext: warm , no edemaekg without changes.labs: two sets cardiac enzymes negative.hospital course:the patient was admitted to bmhc where she was diuresed with returnof symptoms to baseline. underwent ett which was nondiagnostic: 3'30" ,pt had chest pain but no ekg changes. admitted for cardiac pet scan tor/o ischemia.cv:ischemia: no known cad. enzymes negative. she was unable to get petscan on d2 of admission. her rule out was complete and her story wasfelt to be low probability. the patient is on a statin and will becontinued. she is discharged with a plan to follow up at tbh for thenext available two day mibi ( will be contacted ) to assess forreversible ischemia. patient was seen by dr. benulispump: symptoms of volume overload. the patient was continued on herhome lasix dose with improvement in symptoms. she is discharged on herprior home regimen with plan to follow up with jacinto harrigton( nh -chf ) and to follow her daily weights.rhythm: the patient was followed on telemetry with no events.pulm: h/p asthma , osa. the patient was stable on her home inhalersheme: on fe for anemia. no acute issuesendocrine: patient was continued on levoxyl for hypothyroidismfen: fluid restriction and sodium restrictionproph: ppi , lovenoxcode: fcdisposition:the patient is discharged on her prior medical regimen with theaddition of prilosec qd ( covered by her insurance ). she will becontacted by dho for the next available two day mibi and with anappointment to see sammie khoo ( liuohac chf ). she has been instructedto make an appointment to see her pcp in 1-2 weeks. the patient agreesto this planadditional comments: 1. ) please take your prior home medications2. ) please take prilosec as directed3. ) please follow up with your primary care physician in one to twoweeks4. ) please return for any concerns but especially if your symptomsworsen or if you feel short of breath , lightheaded , or increased chestdiscomfortdischarge condition: stableto do/plan:1. ) please take your medications as directed2. ) please weigh yourself when you get home and every morning. pleasecall kim blackett if you have any change in weight more then twopounds.3. ) please eat a low sodium diet4. ) please return for any worsening symptomsno dictated summaryentered by: brines , jerold antone , m.d. ( av507 ) 11/23/04 @ 03 end of discharge orders [report_end]