record #387753738036606 | gho | 59447482 | | 213810 | 6/27/1991 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 3/7/1991 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/25/1991principal diagnosis: deep venous thrombosis in the distalright popliteal vein.history of present illness: the patient is a 49-year-old formertriage nurse who has suffered fromdegenerative joint disease since 1977 when she was hit by a amasa di cisonbus. she was hospitalized at that time and had a left calf deepvenous thrombosis secondary to extended bedrest. her joint diseaseinvolved primarily the l4 to s1 vertebra ( comprising two jointspaces , and she reported this to have been exacerbated by anattempted rape in 1980. at present , the patient suffersconsiderable daily pain inhibiting her ability to work. thepatient recently received a facet block in march of 1991 at thedukey darnha hospital by the pain service which only seemedto increase her pain. she described steadily worsening pain inrecent months and an increased portion of her time is therefore nowspent at bedrest due to her decreased mobility. the patientdescribed first experiencing left calf pain one and a half weeksprior to this admission which manifested itself as a crampy pain ofshort duration. she apparently saw her private medical doctor atthis time , dr. denver lehnen , who sent her out on nonsteroidalanti-inflammatory drugs. on 9/11 , five days prior to admission ,the patient awoke at night with severe right leg cramping. she , atthat time , went to the mutes hospital emergencyroom where a noninvasive vascular study was positive for nonobstructive peroneal vein thrombosis. she was discharged onanaprox. on 8/8 , the patient returned to the dmc emergency roomcomplaining of increased pain and with great anxiety due to herperceived risk of pulmonary embolus. the patient has had thiscondition in the past and was quite concerned about it. noninvasivevascular studies at that time showed the lesion to be obstrutive inthe peroneal vein. however , there was no evidence of deep venousthrombosis at that time. she was discharged on coumadin , 5 mg qday. on 1/24 , the patient experienced further worsening pain andcame to the versteo university medical center for a second opinion. shewas heparinized in the emergency room and admitted to the medicalservice. review of systems: the patient denied chest pain ,shortness of breath , dyspnea on exertion , abdominal pain , nausea ,vomiting , diarrhea or constipation , any recent weight loss or anyadditional constitution of symptoms. past medical history:occasional migraine headaches. l4-5 ruptured disc status post busaccident in 1977. as stated above , she had a left lower extremitydeep venous thrombosis following that hospitalization. previouspositive ppd , she had one year of treatment. mugging in 1980 withexacerbation of her joint disease. emergency room admission in 1988for questionable cholecystitis. facet block times two in 1986 and1991. periods of incremental menorrhagia. she is followed by dr.ceo at the warestar medical center .  endometrial biopsyrecently performed was negative. asthma. gastritis. appendectomy.allergies: fish. erythromycin. lactose intolerance. familyhistory: the patient was raised by foster parents. she has someknowledge of her natural parents. her mother was retarded and diedof a pulmonary embolism. her maternal grandmother had anendochondroma. first cousin with pancreatic cancer. maternalgrandmother had cancer of the cervix. social history: she isdivorced times 11 years. she lives with her 16-year-old daughter.she has a positive smoking history. she denied drinking. shedenied intravenous drug use.physical examination: on admission revealed a well developed ,well nourished white woman in no acutedistress. the patient is mildly agitated and overly circumstantialin her dialogue. blood pressure 112/78. pulse 100. respiratoryrate is 24. temperature 99.3. skin was without lesions. heentexam was within normal limits. neck was supple without adenopathy.she has a positive right anterior cervical mobile mass whichappeared to be a lipoma. she was without any jugular venousdistention. chest was clear to auscultation and percussion. breastexam was refused. cardiac exam revealed a regular rate and rhythmwith normal s1 and s2 without s3 , s4 or any rubs , murmur or gallop.abdomen revealed positive bowel sounds. abdomen was soft ,nondistended without any hepatosplenomegaly. the patient hadnormal sphincter tone , no masses , guaiac negative. extremitiesrevealed right calf tenderness to palpation , slightly swollen , nowarmth , positive homan's sign. no cords were felt. the left calfwas unremarkable with some point tenderness and right inner thigh ,again no cords felt. there was no cva tenderness. there waspositive point tenderness in the region of l4-5 , l5-s1.neurological exam revealed the patient to be alert and orientedtimes three. cranial nerves ii-xii were intact. no deficit ofsensory proprioception or position sense.laboratory data: on admission included a sodium of 140. potassiumof 4.3. chloride 105. bicarb of 30. bun 25.creatinine 1.2. glucose 89. cbc was notable for a white bloodcell count of 11.9 with 22 lymphocytes , 7 monocytes , 67neutrophils , 2 eosinophils. hematocrit was 41.4. platelet count150 , 000. pt was 16.6. ptt 29.8. all other values were withinnormal limits. urinalysis was significant for a ph of 8.0 , 1-3white cells , 0-2 red cells , 1+ bacteria. chest x-ray wasremarkable for no infiltrates or effusions , positive hiatal hernia.ekg revealed sinus rhythm at 90 with intervals of 0.18/0.08/0.36 ,no st changes , no change since 6/17 . hospital course: the patient is a 49-year-old female with ahistory of prior deep venous thrombosis withrecent decreased mobility who presented with a painful right calfwith a documented right peroneal vein obstruction. although theclot is only documented to be below the knee , the question ofprogression must be addressed. initially , in light of strong datasupporting these events , anti-coagulation to prevent progression ofthese clots , the decision was made to further anti-coagulate thepatient as she had minimal risks for this procedure. on admission ,there was no evidence of pulmonary embolus by history of physical.right calf pain/deep venous thrombosis: on the second hospitalday , the patient had noninvasive doppler studies of her lowerextremity which were significant for deep venous thrombosis in thedistal right popliteal vein. there were no other abnormalitiesseen in either lower extremity. the patient was initially treatedwith heparin since her pt was subtherapeutic on admission andcontinued on coumadin. by the second hospital day , the patient wastherapeutically coumadinized and the dose was adjusted accordinglywith the goal of 17 to 19. as far as her leg pain was concerned ,the patient was treated with percocet for this problem. physicaltherapy came and evaluated the patient and helped her withregaining her mobility. she was fitted with compression stockings.arrangements were made for vna for the patient upon discharge.2 ) back pain - this is a longstanding problem for which thispatient has been treated for for many years. she refused anyconsultation at this time by the carmau comgarf hospital pain service. instead , wetreated her with percocet for these symptoms. 3 ) agitation -patient is extremely agitated demonstrating almost hypomanic statewith pressured speech and flight of ideas. she was initially onclonipin on admission on which she was maintained. in addition ,she was given additional benzodiazepines to help with sleep.disposition: condition on discharge: stable. patient wastherapeutically anti-coagulated and she was given aregimen of coumadin to take to be followed by dr. garth schoenborn .disposition is to home with visiting nurse service. dischargemedications: coumadin 2.5 alternating with 5 mg q.d. , clonazepam0.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , percocet one tablet p.o. q.4-6h. , darvocet l00mg p.o. q.8h. p.r.n. , senokot 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. , and cimetidine300 mg p.o. t.i.d. patient is to be followed by dr. gino d wiece .lz443/0365nolan maheu , m.d. li32 d: 5/9/91batch: 0306 report: x3984s5 t: 7/19/91dictated by: ernesto timpe , m.d.[report_end]