record #395161002712288 | pcmc | 11481136 | | 4810816 | 8/18/2006 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 8/18/2006 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: josilowsky , odell mdprimary care physician: dr. freddie fluegge , 006-879-6983chief complaint: sepsis.history of present illness: ms. wiest is an 83-year-old womanwith multiple medical problems including cad status post cabg ,diabetes mellitus , chf ( ef 55% ) and atrial fibrillation whopresented with hypotension , likely secondary to sepsis from rightlower extremity cellulitis. she developed the right lowerextremity cellulitis one month ago. two days prior toadmission , pt developed worsening erythema , edema and tendernessalong with chills and sweats. she was brought into the emergencyroom on 11/0/06 and was found to be hypotensive with a systolicblood pressure in the 80s. she was given iv fluids and startedon vancomycin , aztreonam , and clindamycin , but remainedhypotensive. she was started on dopamine , levophed andvasopressin as well as decadron. surgery was consulted for biopsy as to ruleout the possibility of necrotizing fascitis. act of her lower extremity was done in the ed and she was admitted to the micu.pt's blood cultures grew group a streptococcus. her wound culture grewgroup a strep and e. coli. pt was also dx with a klebseilla uti. herantibiotics were changed to vancomycin , levofloxacin , and flagyl.her blood pressure improved and on the day of transfer to thefloor on 4/15/06 , she was noted to be oliguric , presumablydue atn secondary to hypotension. her urineoutput continued to drop and she developed a metabolic acidosiswith a bicarbonate of 10. her lactic acid at that point was 4.4. her abg was:7. 8/23/98 and she was transferred back to themicu.from a renal perspective , arf was less likely to be post-streptococcalglomerulonephritis because of the timing of her strep infection.she had no hypertension or wbc casts. the ua waspositive for hematuria. she had low complement levels , so therewas some question of hus after group b strep infection ,although there were no schistocytes on her smear. the pt wasaneuric on admission to the micu and she started renalreplacement therapy. her urine output recovered andwas greater than 800 ml daily while in the icu.however , by the day of transfer to the floor on 9/27/06 , her urine outputstarted to decrease and she started intermittentdialysis via a tunneled lij catheter. the renal team followed her closely andher meds were renally dosed. her vancomycin was dosed by level.in terms of her hypertension , her blood pressure has normalized andher beta-blocker is being titrated upwards.from a cardiac perspective , the pt's troponin hit a high of0.87 in the setting of septic shock. she was evaluated by mmmccardiology , and this was felt to be consistent with demandischemia. she has actually been asymptomatic from a cardiacstandpoint. she was continued on daily aspirin. her ldl was 63and a statin was started. she will actually need her fastinglipids checked once her acute illness has passed and her ldl goalis less than 70. the patient has a history of afib on coumadin.her inr goal is 2-3. her inr is drifting down. she is off ofcoumadin because she has several lines that needed to be pulled ,including a right subclavian. the hemodialysis catheter will either beremoved , if she has improved urine output , or a more permanent type of accesswill be placed. she will be on prophylactic heparin t.i.d. for dvtprophylaxis when her inr hits 1.5.from a hematologic perspective , the patient initially had thrombocytopenia onadmission. there was some concern for dic , as there was a very quick rise inher inr. fibrinogen; however , was normal and the inr has since stabilized. shehas persistent thrombocytopenia , although her platelet count is recovering.her platelet factor 4 antibody was negative.there was no clear precipitant other than sepsis. she has anormocytic anemia with a large drop in hematocrit since admission andthere was some concern for hemolysis with the risingbilirubin , low haptoglobin with multiple immature erythrocytes ,but no schistocytes were seen on manual diff. she did requiretwo units of packed red blood cells on this admission. herhematocrit and platelets did drop on 1/26/06 as the steroids were beingtapered off. her direct coombs was negative. haptoglobinwas within normal limits. medications causing herthrombocytopenia like seroquel and heparin were stopped.from a pulmonary standpoint , she is oxygenating and ventilatingwell and not requiring any supplemental o2. she started tubefeeds on 5/15/06 with some marked hyperglycemia and alsosteroids for her hypotension contributing to her hyperglycemia.she was actually started on an iv insulin protocol in the icu for bettercontrol and then was transitioned to nph insulin plus regularinsulin as well as a regular insulin sliding scale with good effect.her home regimen was previously lantus 25 units sc daily. hertsh was within normal limits and she will continue levothyroxine.the patient developed a pain in her left fourth finger during this admissionand the pip joint was tapped on 1/26/06 by rheumatology. theappearance of the fluid was consistent with gout. she improved with steroids.her right shoulder ultrasound showed a small effusion , which was unlikely to beinfectious per radiology. she was started on decadron 4 mg p.o. q.6h. , and onlyhas mild , residual pain.from a gi perspective , pt's lfts rose on 2/2/06with peak alt of 122 , t bili of 8.7 , and alkaline phosphatase of196. she had a rising inr ( off of coumadin ) consistent withhepatic injury and hepatocellular dysfunction. her abdominal ct wasunremarkable. gi was consulted. the etiology was unclear and the differentialdiagnosis was drug related liver injury versus infection or shock liver , andless likely , fatty liver disease. her hepatitis serologies arenegative and tylenol has been held since 2/2/06 . flagyland clindamycin were discontinued on 5/15/06 , and her lftstrended down. ama was negative. asma was pending at the time of thisdictation.from a neurologic point of view , the patient initially requireddilaudid pca for pain with her legs. now , she is comfortable on a fentanylpatch with dilaudid boluses. seroquel was started for sedationand that was actually stopped because of thrombocytopenia.from a dermatologic standpoint , she has had left lower extremityvenostasis ulcers. she has a right lower extremity arterialinsufficiency ulcer. she was seen by wound care. vascularsurgery requested that she have abis and assessment of her vascularflow once her acute illness has passed.for nutrition , the patient started tube feeds through an ng tube given herprolonged sedation. she will need to continue to improve her nutritionalstatus. a speech and swallow evaluation was done on 2/4/07and she has been approved for oral , soft diet.in terms of access , pt has a right subclavian left ij hemodialysis catheter.she had a left radial artery line that was discontinued on 5/15/06 . the rightsubclavian will be removed when her inr is 1.5 and thehemodialysis catheter will either be removed or replaced withmore permanent access depending on her urine output.for prophylaxis , she is on nexium. she does not havepneumo boots on because of cellulitis and heparin was held withthrombocytopenia , now will be restarted on 2/4/07 or when herinr is 1.5 rather.past medical history: diabetes mellitus type ii on insulin , cadstatus post cabg ( 1998 ). the right saphenous vein was harvestedfor surgery. since that time , she has had baseline swelling andedema in the right lower extremity , chf with diastolicdysfunction , ef 55% in august 2004 , dry weight is 150 pounds perthe patient. atrial fibrillation on coumadin. sick sinussyndrome , status post permanent pacemaker placement in march 2006complicated by hemothorax requiring thoracoscopy. chronic renalinsufficiency with a baseline creatinine of 1.7 , gout ,osteoarthritis , status post left total knee replacement in 1995 ,status post right total knee replacement in 1990 , hypothyroid ,osteoporosis , and chronic hearing loss.home medications: lantus 25 units subcu q.a.m. , novolog slidingscale , aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , prednisone taper ( started4/10/06 ) half tab daily x2 weeks , then half tab every other dayx2 weeks , torsemide 20 mg 2-3 tabs p.o. daily depending onweight , metoprolol 12.5 p.o. b.i.d. coumadin? 1 mg p.o. nightly ,fentanyl 25 mcg per hour q.72h. , potassium , levothyroxine 75 mcgp.o. daily.allergies: penicillin causes red welts. this is the onlyallergy that the patient endorses. cephalosporin , unknownreaction. question for quinolones , unknown reaction , but thepatient have been taking levofloxacin and ciprofloxacin in thepast without a problem. sulfa and bactrim , unknown reaction.codeine unknown reaction.social history: the patient lives with her daughter and fivegrandchildren , ranging in age from 7 to the 20s. she is a formerhealthcare worker and a union organizer. at baseline , she uses awalker. she never smoked tobacco. she very rarely drinksalcohol and never used any drugs.family history: parents: does not know the family history ofher parents or siblings. she has a son with a history ofdiabetes.admission physical examination: temperature 98.7 , heart rate 98 ,blood pressure 171/85 , respiratory rate 19-23 , satting 97%-98% on2 l ( this is the icu admission from 4/15/06 ). in general , shewas moaning in pain , slightly drowsy , but easily arouseable.oriented to person , " beebe memorial hospital " , and " may ".speaking in full sentences. ent remarkable for slightlysluggishly reactive pupils bilaterally. her oropharynx notablefor dry mucous membranes. neck was supple. lungs were clearwith decreased breath sounds at the bases bilaterally.cardiovascular exam was tachycardic , regular with the distant s1and s2. her abdomen remarkable for normal bowel sounds ,otherwise nontender and nondistended. extremities , pain withmovement of her upper extremities. she had baselineosteoarthritis in the shoulders , right greater than left. rightlower extremity had erythema , warmth and 2+ edema with exquisitetenderness 1 cm below the knee. the lateral distal lowerextremity had 3 cm very dark black plaque near the biopsy site.she had a right foot that was cool with 1+ dorsalis pedis pulses.left lower extremity with 2+ edema , 1+ dorsalis pedis pulse.left hand , fourth and fifth digit mcp-pip with erythema andwarmth. neurologic , cranial nerves ii through xii are grosslyintact. moving all extremities. full strength exams precludedby pain.her ekg showed v pacing. chest x-ray on 11/0/06 showedcardiomegaly , a right ij in place ( placed in the ed ) , no focalconsolidation. no overt pulmonary edema or pneumothorax. ct ofthe right lower extremity showed cellulitis without gas. echo inaugust 2004 , ef of 55% , no regional wall motion abnormalities. rvwas dilated with normal function. she had diastolic septalflattening consistent with rv volume overload by atrialenlargement , mild-to-moderate mr , pap , 17+ ra.laboratory data: remarkable for bicarbonate 21 , bun 49 ,creatinine 1.6 ( baseline 1.7 ) , glucose of 204 , magnesium 1.3 ,lactic acid was 6.5 going to 6.2 , t bili was 1.5 , ast 45. inr1.4. hematocrit 43.2 , platelets of 156 , 000 , white count of 9.8with 84% neutrophils , 14% bands , 1 lymph , 1 mono. cardiacenzymes were positive at 9 p.m. on 4/15/06 with the troponin of0.26.microbiology data: blood culture on 11/0/06 positive for betahemolytic group a strep. urine on 11/0/06 , greater than 100 , 000klebsiella ( pansensitive ). blood cultures on 7/3/06 positivefor beta hemolytic group a strep. blood cultures 4/15/06 , nogrowth. joint fluid on 3/19/06 from the right knee , no growth ,rare polys , no organisms seen on gram stain. blood cultures from6/17/06 , 12 , and 7/27/06 , all no growth to date at the time of thisdictation. stool culture negative for c. diff. left fourthfinger fluid negative for organisms on gram stain or culture on1/26/06 . sputum culture on 9/23/07 , 1+ suspected oral flora.chest x-ray on 9/23/07 , hazy opacification within the left lowerhemithorax due to atelectasis , unchanged from 4/2/06 . rightlower extremity fascial biopsy on 11/0/06 , dense fibroconnectivetissue , no acute inflammation present.impression: ms. holoman is an 83-year-old woman with multiplemedical problems presenting with hypotension likely secondary tosepsis from her right lower extremity cellulitis and a klebsiella uti.plan:1. id: the patient had group a strep bacteremia likely due tocellulitis. she was treated empirically with vancomycin x6weeks. day one was 7/3/06 . vancomycin was being dosed bilevelas the patient was requiring hemodialysis and had decreased urineoutput. echocardiogram was unremarkable for vegetations. secondecho was pending on 2/4/07 at the time of this dictation torule out any kind of vegetation. she did have some spots on hertoes that looked like possible janeway lesions. klebsiella utiwas treated with levofloxacin.2. renal: the patient is oliguric acute renal failure onchronic with question of either a result of sepsis andvasodilatation and hypotension versus a true atn. she has beenrequiring hemodialysis. last dialysis was 2/4/07 . urineoutput and improving. the patient may have a permanent tunneledcatheter placed depending on how her urine output recovers. wewill use lasix p.r.n. to manage volume.3. cardiovascular: the patient had demand ischemia with a peaktroponin of 0.87 with septic. her ldl was 63 and a statin wasstarted. she will continue her aspirin and beta-blocker. wewill recheck her fasting lipids when the acute illness hasresolved as an outpatient. the patient now has normal bloodpressure with titrating her beta-blocker up and consideringadding a second agent to normalize her hypotension. we areavoiding ace inhibitors because of her acute renal failure. shehas afib , sick sinus syndrome. she is on coumadin as anoutpatient , has a permanent pacemaker. we are holding hercoumadin for now and this can be resumed once decision has beenmade about hemodialysis access. she had an elevated inr in theicu , presumably due to shock liver , as her other lfts arealso increased simultaneously.4. endocrine: the patient has diabetes mellitus. she haselevated blood sugars on tube feeds and steroids. we aretitrating up her insulin. her home regimen is lantus. the tubefeeds were discontinued on 2/4/07 as the patient was cleared toeat a diabetic diet and we will transition her insulinaccordingly. she is hypothyroid and we should continue her homelevoxyl.5. rheumatology: the patient had a gout flare in her left hand ,right shoulder , and right knee. taps were consistent with gout.the cultures were no growth to date. she is on a dexamethasonetaper , however decreasing to 1 mg iv q.12h. on 11/0/07 perrheumatology.6. heme: the patient had persistently low platelets and anemia.initially , it was a concern for dic , but the fibrinogen wasnormal. there was some concern for hemolysis. her hematocritand platelets dropped in the setting of tapering her steroids andshe actually did require two units of packed red cells on1/26/06 . her dexamethasone was then increased. in response tothat , heparin was stopped. her platelet factor iv antibody isnegative. we will continue to follow her counts as we taper thesteroids. it could be possible that the changes in herhematocrit and platelets are due to sepsis.7. gi on 2/2/06 , she developed elevated lfts. we continued tofollow the trend of her lfts and they have decreasing at the timeof this dictation.8. neurology: the patient has severe pain from gout. she is ona dilaudid pca initially , now is on her home fentanyl patch withdilaudid boluses p.r.n.9. dermatology: the patient has a history of venostasis ulcersand right arterial lower extremity insufficiency. she was seenby wound care and vascular surgery , were continued to followtheir recommendations and when she is an outpatient , she shouldhave abis. she could not have an mri to study flow to those legsas she has a pacemaker.10. fen: the patient is on a mechanical soft diet with thinliquids on 2/4/07 . nutrition is following.11. prophylaxis: the patient will need dvt prophylaxis when inrhits 1.5. she is on a ppi while she is on steroids.disposition: rehabilitation. she has a right subclavian linethat should be removed prior to discharge , and a decision aboutthe hemodialysis catheter should be made.her healthcare proxy is her daughter , trotochaud , her cell number668-657-7261 , home number is 385-451-1580.code: dnr/dni.continued care plan:1. follow up the results of all cultures to resolution.2. remove right subclavian line.3. make a decision about whether or not the patient will needintermittent hemodialysis and if so , through what access.4. resume coumadin once that access has been placed or once all lines havebeen removed.5. recheck lipids as an outpatient.6. abis for both legs and followup of chronic , non-healing wound.7. continue vancomycin.escription document: 2-4619281 cssten teldictated by: cottrell , terrellattending: spraker , codydictation id 6668410d: 2/4/07t: 11/0/07[report_end]