record #399249549768030 | xmh | 41765387 | | 4883832 | 10/6/2005 12:00:00 am | multiple myeloma , failure to thrive | signed | dis | admission date: 11/6/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 0/28/2005attending: schindel , ernest booker mdprincipal diagnosis:fluid overload/chf.list of problems and diagnoses:1. cardiac2. renal/genitourinary3. heme4. onc5. endocrine6. pain7. psychiatricbrief history of present illness:the patient is a 69-year-old male with a history of multiplemyeloma , and worsening bph ( benign prostatic hypertrophy ) ,requiring a foley. the patient was seen in randuke hospital on the day of admission and was noted to have ahematocrit drop from the 37 range to 28.5 along with hypotensionand an increasing creatinine rising from 1.2-2.3 in one week'stime.the patient was noted to have recently significantly increasinglower extremity edema. he reports that over a 3-4 day period , hewent from having almost no edema to having very large legs , whichhe describes "tree trunks." the patient reports that these werepainful at first , but are no longer painful. he reports thatthey were always symmetric. the patient reports no prior historyof chf ( congestive heart failure ) , or any severe cardiacproblems , which he is aware , but does report having heart attackat 27 years old. the patient did not know the details of thesecardiac events at 27 years old , and has received minimal followupfor this issue. he does report that he was intermittently seenby a cardiologist , and had a normal catheterization four yearsago. he reports he has never had an echocardiogram.the patient also reports an episode of 30-minute chest tightnessthe day prior to admission while he was having a foley catheterplaced. the patient did not tell anyone about this at that time ,and this pain desisted on its own. the pain was described assubsternal burning pain , with no left arm pain , no jaw pain , noshortness of breath or diaphoresis , and no nausea or vomiting.the patient has had no orthopnea or pnd.the patient has had a recent history increasingly worsening bph.the patient has a 15-year history of bph , and is followed by dr.tod cutshall at kernmilf nadrock hospital and health center .  the patient wasrecently admitted to shhc for anuria , had a cystoscopy , clotevacuation and was discharged on 11/11/05 with a foley in place.the patient followed up with dr. queen on 6/17/05 , had hisfoley removed , but failed this trial and he represented to anoutside hospital with clots and anuria. the patient's bladderwas irrigated and the foley was replaced. he reports that he hasbeen passing clots but that he has been passing urine. thepatient also reports that his urine while having clots at times ,is mostly clear and yellow , and that he continually makes urineand has to replace the foley bag.past medical history:1. multiple myeloma ( kappa ).2. bph.3. insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type ii.4. hypertension.5. nephrolithiasis.6. myocardial infarction at 27 years old.allergies:nkda.medications on admission:1. verapamil 180 mg once daily.2. lisinopril 20 mg once daily.3. lasix 20 mg once daily.4. aldactazide 50/50 mg on monday , wednesday , and friday.5. flomax 0.4 mg once daily.6. lipitor 10 mg once daily.7. proscar 5 mg once daily.8. percocet as needed for pain.9. lantus 15 units daily.10. humalog sliding scale insulin11. the patient's chemotherapy - velcade , last 5/28/05 . 12. other medications recently used in association withchemotherapy , zometa , aranesp.13. as needed medications:a. lorazepam.b. ranitidine.c. senna.social history:the patient used to work in construction and demolition. he hadnever smoked , and has never drank alcohol. the patient was withhis wife , they have no children.family history:1. cardiovascular - the patient's dad father of mi at 60 yearsold.2. diabetes mellitus - the patient's sister died ofcomplications of diabetes.3. cancer - the patient does have history of cancer in hisfamily , but is unclear of the details.brief physical exam:vital signs: temperature 96.5 , pulse 70 , blood pressure 100/62 ,respiratory rate 20 and the patient is satting 95% on room air.general: the patient is alert , oriented , in no acute distress ,and is not ill appearing. heent: normocephalic , atraumatic ,oropharynx is clear. no lesions or ulcers. no lymphadenopathy.anicteric sclerae. cardiovascular , has jvp elevated to the angleof the jaw. regular rate and rhythm , with frequent prematurebeat. no s3 or s4 appreciated. pulmonary: a few crackles atthe left base otherwise clear to auscultation. abdomen: soft ,nontender , bowel sounds present and normoactive. nohepatosplenomegaly , no frank dullness. extremities: 2-3+pitting edema to the knees , symmetric bilaterally , shinslukewarm. strength 5/5 throughout in upper and lowerextremities. neurological: the patient is alert and orientedx3 , has normal affect. reflexes in the biceps , patellar , andachilles tendons are equal bilaterally. sensation grossly intacton upper and lower extremities.pertinent laboratory results:on admission , the patient's white blood cell count was 7.2 , hishematocrit was 28.5 , down from 37 one week previously. thepatient's platelet count was 238 , 000. the patient's chem-7 wasunremarkable with the exception of a creatinine of 2.3 , up from abaseline of 1.2-1.4 over one week's time. the patient had a bnpchecked , which turned out to be 312 , elevated. the patient hasalso had several recent imaging studies including renalultrasound on 7/27/05 , which showed multiple bilateral renalcysts but no obstruction. an abdominal mri was obtained on11/15/05 , which showed small amount of ascites , an enlargedprostate , multiple renal cysts , no other pathologies was noted.the patient also had a ct to evaluate his ureters on 10/23/05 ,which showed no stones in the kidneys or ureters , but an enlargedprostate.a cystoscopy report from 11/0/05 from a recent admission toma faulkmark hospital showed oozing from tortuous veins inthe prostate.the patient had an ekg , which showed first-degree block with aleft bundle branch block , and frequent pvcs. this was noted tobe present on an old examination , after consultation with anoutpatient cardiologist at perlaw memorial hospital .  the patienthad a troponin i of 0.11 , slightly elevated. the patient's ckwas 136 , mb fraction 4.3 , both within normal limits. onadmission , the patient coagulation parameters showed an inr of1.2. other pertinent data includes an orally reported cardiaccatheterization at beckry hospital in 2001 , which showed noobstructive coronary disease , but diffuse coronary arterydisease , with an ejection fraction of 50%. an adenosine mibiobtained in 2002 at peacepe planthugh memorial medical center showed possible oldinferior infarct , global hypokinesis and an ejection fraction of35-40%. an echocardiogram obtained during this admissiondemonstrated the patient's ef at this point to be 25% , ratherwith global hypokinesis.operations or procedures:there were no operations or procedures performed during thisadmission.hospital course by problem:cardiovascular - the patient was determined initially to belikely in congestive heart failure , with elevated neck veins , andincreased leg edema and a low blood pressure. because thepatient was determined to be in chf , he was diuresed with ivlasix , and later with p.o. lasix , the patient was diuresedapproximately 2 liters per day over a 4-5 period. the patient'sblood pressure subsequently rose. after consultation withcardiology , it was determined that a beta blocker and an aceinhibitor should be added to the patient's medication regimen ashis blood pressure would allow , for demonstrated benefit andcongestive heart failure.because the patient was initially determined to have some risk ofmyocardial infarction , had reported chest pain the day prior toadmission , and had slightly elevated troponins. the patient'stroponin and ck-mb were followed until they began decreasing. itis likely that these very small elevations were due to smallamount of ischemia from demand , due to the patient's fluidoverload and anemia. the patient was continued on his statinmedication.the patient on admission had frequent pvcs , and some short runsof ventricular tachycardia lasting less than 5 beats. afterdiuresis , the patient had no further runs of vt , and had onlyminimal ectopy. the patient's electrolytes including potassiumand magnesium were checked daily and repleted as necessary.aspirin was withheld from the patient for now , despite having abenefit in cardiac disease of this kind. this is because thepatient's hematocrit was low and he had recently had bleedinglikely from his bladder. urology department was consultedregarding this decision.renal/genitourinary: the patient has a long known history of bphand is followed closely at cotson tionlo hospital by dr.josue grefe . the patient was recently admitted for theseproblems due to obstruction , and instrumentation. on admission ,the patient's urine did not have any red blood cells , and he hadno obvious clots at any point. after consultation with urology ,and after the patient had been diuresing well with lasix , thepatient's foley catheter was removed and after this point he hadno problem with urinating. the patient was maintained on proscarin addition to flomax.heme: the patient's hematocrit drop was likely due to twofactors. first of all , the patient is known to have been losingblood in the form of clots from his bladder. this is likely dueto bleeding from the surface of his prostate where a recentcystoscopy had demonstrated tortuous veins. in addition , thereading of hematocrit of 24.5 on admission was likely secondaryto dilution , the patient was massively fluid overloaded. thepatient's hematocrit rose after diuresis , and was maintained inthe 31-32 range without transfusion during admission. he was ,however , typed and screened , and the plan was to transfuse himshould his hematocrit decrease below 30 , given his cardiachistory.oncologic: the patient is followed closely by dr. zecchini athool norhunt general hospital .  his most recent treatment was on5/28/05 and his multiple myeloma seems to be responding well totherapy. during this admission , multiple myeloma was not anactive issue. see reb memorial hospital notes for more information.endocrine: the patient has a history of type 2 diabetes , hetakes lantus and novolog at home. he was continued on thesemedications while as an inpatient.pain: the patient was offered oxycodone p.r.n. for pain. he didnot complain of any pain during admission.psychiatric: the patient , though pleasant and cooperative onadmission , became increasingly combative. on the night of0/9/05 , he became very combative , and attempted to hit one ofthe cross covering physicians. the patient was initially triedon several medications to control this agitation including ativanand zyprexa. these apparently were not effective at first. thepatient continued to have difficulty sleeping and was veryagitated. at one point , he would not take his medications.psychiatry was involved , and after much discussion with thepatient and involvement of social work , the patient did calm downand agreed to medical care. at one point when he becameagitated , he was given haldol intravenously , in addition toativan , after being given these medications , the patient sleptvery well through the night. when he awoke the next morning , hismood was much improved , and he apologized for his behavior ,reporting he did not know what happened. because of the changein mental status , several studies were obtained to investigatethis , a head ct showed no acute disease , only some bony changeslikely chronic due to multiple myeloma. in addition , thepatient's electrolytes were checked which were normal , thepatient's fingerstick blood glucose was checked which was normal.in addition , an rpr was sent , in addition to folate and b12.these labs were pending at the time of discharge and will befollowed up by his outpatient physicians.code status:full code.complications:there were no complications during this admission.consultants:1. cardiology - the patient was seen by cardiology fellow , dr.haywood kahao , who set him up with follow up in the lod medical center cardiology clinic.2. urology: dr. mel priester , hughnang valley hospital . 3. psychiatry: dr. ecoffey , n.ands community hospitalpsychiatry.key features of physical exam on discharge:at the time of discharge , the patient was mentating very well ,thinking clearly , and was pleasant and cooperative. theremainder of the patient's exam was much improved from hisadmission and his lower extremity edema had decreased to 1+ , andhe continued to diurese well with p.o. lasix. the patient's jvpwhile still slightly elevated at 7 cm , was much decreased fromadmission jvp , which had gone to the angle of the jaw. ondischarge , the patient was urinating well and had no urinarysymptoms.discharge medications:1. colace 100 mg p.o. orally twice daily.2. ferrous sulfate 325 mg orally three times daily.3. lasix 80 mg p.o. once orally daily.4. lopressor 25 mg orally twice daily.5. proscar 5 mg orally daily.6. zyprexa 5 mg orally daily before bed.7. flomax 0.4 mg orally daily.8. nexium 20 mg orally daily.9. lantus 15 units subcutaneously each morning.10. humalog , sliding scale per patient's prior scale.11. lisinopril 2.5 mg once daily.12. lipitor 10 mg orally daily before bed.disposition:the patient was discharged to home with vna followup.physician follow-up plans:the patient has been setup to follow with the chf clinic atd. stemte griffa hospital and clinic with dr. juan subera . the patienthas also been setup for a follow-up appointment with cardiologyat herwaychael nalwella lecamp medical center on 4/4/05 at 9 a.m. , thepatient will be setup for followup at the ora medical center , the patient has also been setup withurology followup , they have contacted him directly. thepatient's inpatient psychiatry followup was contacted while aninpatient , he will be contacted with further follow-up plans oncehe has left the hospital.advance directive:the patient describes his wish to be full code at the time ofhospitalization.escription document: 0-2305177 emssten telcc: ronny ung mdecv psychiatryoregoncc: lacy records mdvermontdictated by: donnally , chadwickattending: james s. jonker , m.d. bv40dictation id 1418523d: 8/0/05t: 8/0/05[report_end]