605527151 | amh | 91358655 | | 2766747 | 7/16/2006 12:00:00 am | fever | unsigned | dis | admission date: 5/10/2006 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 5/10/2006attending: bairam , teodoro geoffrey mddisposition: rehab facility.chief complaint: fever.history of present illness: this is an 86-year-old woman with ahistory of diastolic dysfunction , pmr , insulin-dependentdiabetes , adrenal insufficiency , and partial sbo , who istransferred from shan hospitals of with recurrence of feverafter a recent discharge from ouh on valley healthduring , which she was treated for pneumonia. the patient had arecent admission to harbanburkehead health from 3/25/06 to4/3/06 , during which she was treated for a urinary tractinfection and pneumonia and discharged to crit community memorial hospitalwith a picc line for complete the course of levofloxacin andvancomycin. she had transient hypertension during that previousadmission , but otherwise did well was initially treated withceftriaxone , vancomycin and then levofloxacin and vancomycin anddischarged to rehab. she has been feeling well during the sincethen , on the night prior admission , she was noted to have atemperature of 101.8 with mild nausea. she denied any otherassociated symptoms. she is also noted to have an increasingoxygen requirement at the rehab facility increased from baselineof good saturations of room air up to requirement of 3 l nasalcannula to maintain her oxygen saturation.past medical history:1. congestive heart failure. an echocardiogram in september of2005 showed an ejection fraction of 60% with diastolicdysfunction. pulmonary artery systolic pressure of 49 plus aright atrial pressure and trace regurgitation in all valves.2. pmr.3. hypertension.4. gerd.5. hypothyroidism.6. history of tia.7. osteoarthritis.8. legally blind.9. status post cholecystectomy.10. depression.11. history of nissen fundoplication.12. adrenal insufficiency from a history of chronic steroid usein the past , now maintained on hydrocortisone.medications on transfer from goocharle hospital are as follows:1. levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.48 h.2. vancomycin 1 gm iv q.24 h.3. norvasc 5 mg p.o. daily.4. aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.5. lumigan drops ou nightly.6. dulcolax 5 mg p.o. daily.7. captopril 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d.8. colace p.o. b.i.d.9. insulin nph 16 units q.a.m. and 6 units q.p.m.10. remeron 15 mg nightly.11. synthroid 88 mcg p.o. daily.12. multivitamin.13. protonix 40 mg p.o. daily.14. zocor 20 mg p.o. daily.15. iron 325 mg p.o. daily.16. guiatuss 10 mg p.o. q.i.d.17. allegra 60 mg p.o. daily.18. hydrocortisone 30 mg p.o. q.a.m.19. milk of magnesia p.r.n.20. epoetin 60 , 000 units subq every saturday.allergies: sulfa , azathioprine , sertraline , and metoclopramide.social history: the patient never smoked , use alcohol or drugs.her son is very involved and confirms that the patient isdnr/dni.family history: noncontributory.physical examination: on admission , the temperature is 98.6 ,heart rate 70 , respiratory rate 16 , blood pressure 133/61 , oxygensaturation was 79% on room air and increased in 94% on 3 l nasalcannula. in general , the patient appeared comfortable withpleasant and convulsant and blind. neck showed a jvp of 7.chest exam was with left basilar crackles no wheezes. heart wasregular rate and rhythm with a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur atthe left upper sternal border. abdomen was soft , nontender , andnondistended with normal bowel sounds. extremities with noclubbing , cyanosis , or edema.laboratory data: on admission were significant for potassium of4.5 , bun of 23 , creatinine 1.6 , which is at her baseline of 1.4to 1.6. white blood cell count of 5.7 , hematocrit 27.3 from abaseline of 26 to 29 , platelets of 347 , 000. coagulation studieswere normal. liver function tests were normal. cardiac enzymeswere negative. chest x-ray showed no change in the left lowerlobe infiltrate , since 10/20/06. an ekg showed q-waveflattening , but no changes from her prior ekgs. normal sinusrhythm.impression: this is an 86-year-old woman with multiple medicalproblems including congestive heart failure , diabetes , andadrenal insufficiency , who presents with recurrent fevers throughlevofloxacin and vancomycin.hospital course:1. infectious disease. initially , the source of her repeatedfevers was unclear. multiple cultures were sent including urinecultures , stool studies , peripheral blood cultures and bloodcultures from the picc sputum cultures and induced sputum withtesting for pcp , given her history of chronic steroid useswithout pcp prophylaxis. all of these came back negative withthe exception of one blood culture from the picc , which grewcoagulase negative staphylococcus aureus. so , the picc line wasdiscontinued and the tip sent for culture , which was negative.after discontinuation of the picc line , the patient did not haveany further fevers. the remainder of her admission , which wasgreater than 72 hours. the induced sputum for pcp was alsonegative and the patient was then started on pcp prophylaxis withmepron ( given her sulfa allergy ) to be continued until she hadcompleted her gradual tapper off of steroids. she completed thelevofloxacin and vancomycin courses , which were started on theprevious admission , for pneumonia and did not have any furtherfevers after completing these antibiotics. a ppd was placed ,which was negative.2. endocrine. the patient has a history of hypothyroidism ,adrenal insufficiency secondary to chronic steroids in the pastand insulin-dependent diabetes. her tsh was checked and wasnormal on admission. so , she was continued on her home dose ofsynthroid. further instructions through her primary careprovider. her hydrocortisone was slightly decreased and her slowtaper will be further directed by her primary care provider afterdischarge. her insulin regimen was up titrated with the additionof the q.a.c. novalog , given her high fingerstick blood glucoses.she should continue on this increased regimen after discharge.3. pulmonary. on admission , the patient was noted to be hypoxicon room air with an oxygen saturation of 79% to 80% , whichincreased to 93% on 2 l to 3 l of nasal cannula. given this newhypoxia and her chronic decreased ambulation , she was sent for act angiogram of the chest , which was negative for pe. the studyalso shows small bilateral pleural effusion and mild pulmonaryedema. resolution of her previous pneumonia and possiblyreactive mediastinal lymphadenopathy. given this data , she wasrestarted on lasix with diuresis , titrated to 1 l negative perday and was sound well. given this data , she was restarted onlasix with the diuresis titrated to 1 l negative per day andresponded well. she had decreasing shortness of breath andimproved room air oxygen saturation up to 85% at the time ofdischarge. she is continued to be maintained on oxygen of 2 lnasal cannula with good oxygen saturation and is anticipated tohave a successful gradual wean from oxygen as her diuresiscontinue after discharge. the pulmonary service was consultedand followed her agreeing with the diagnosis of pulmonary edema.they also recommended a followup noncontrast chest ct in 2 to 4weeks after discharge to reevaluate her mediastinallymphadenopathy after a period of diuresis. a followupappointment was made with dr. soucek at the chest clinic atsio sane hospital for two weeks following discharge.pulmonary function test were completed , which showed arestrictive defect , which the pulmonary service felt could beattributed to her volume overload. an echo showed an increasedpulmonary artery systolic pressure at 47 plus the right atrialpressure consistent with previous echo done in september of 2005.thus , this was not considered to be new pathology , nor likelyrelated to her new hypoxia.4. hematologic. the patient has a known diagnosis of irondeficiency anemia as well as anemia of chronic disease and ismaintaining on iron and epoetin as an outpatient. there were nosigns or symptoms of bleeding throughout this admission and shenot required a blood transfusion at any point. she shouldcontinue on her outpatient regimen of iron and epoetin afterdischarge. iron studies done on this admission showed adequateiron repletion with her current regimen.5. cardiovascular. there was no evidence of ischemia throughoutthe admission. given her findings of pulmonary edema on chest ctand her history of diastolic congestive heart failure , she wasstarted on lasix 20 mg iv b.i.d. with effective diuresis noted.this was transitioned to a p.o. regimen of 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,which will be continued after discharge and titrated to herweight loss. she was also continued on her outpatient zocor ,norvasc and lisinopril.6. renal. the patient has a history of chronic renalinsufficiency. she received mucomyst and bicarbonate in her ivfluids , prior to her ct angiogram of the chest with prophylaxisagainst contrast nephropathy. her creatinine remained stable at1.6 for remainder of the admission , which was greater than 72hours. all mediations were appropriately renally dosed. sheshould continue followup with her primary care provider regardingher chronic renal insufficiency in the future.7. fluid , electrolytes , and nutrition. the patient wasmaintained on any iv fluids except as prophylaxis for her ctangiogram. the potassium and magnesium were repeated as neededand she was maintained on the renal , cardiac ada diet.8. prophylaxis: she was maintained on t.i.d. subq heparin fordvt prophylaxis and nexium for gi prophylaxis as well as anaggressive bowel regimen , given her history of chronicconstipation.9. code status: the patient is dnr/dni and her son john durazo , is the healthcare proxy.discharge plan: the patient will be discharged back to mclemens hospital of county to continue physical therapy to regain some independencewith her activities of daily living and more specifically toregain some independence and the activities , which she enjoyssuch as playing the piano. she will have followup with herprimary care provider , dr. pacetti regarding general plan for hercare including gradual hydrocortisone taper , her lasix dosing andher diabetes management. she will also followup at the chestclinic with dr. tobola regarding her pcp prophylaxis and thepossibly of repeat chest ct regarding the question of hermediastinal lymphadenopathy seen on ct during this admission.medications on discharge:1. aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.2. albuterol nebulizer q.4 h. p.r.n. wheezing or shortness ofbreath.3. norvasc 5 mg p.o. daily.4. mepron 750 mg p.o. b.i.d.5. lumigan one drop ou nightly.6. dulcolax 5 mg p.o. daily.7. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.8. nexium 40 mg p.o. daily.9. iron 325 mg p.o. b.i.d.10. allegra 60 mg p.o. daily.11. lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.12. neurontin 300 mg p.o. nightly.13. hydrocortisone 20 mg p.o. q.a.m.14. aspart insulin sliding scale q.a.c.15. aspart insulin 8 units subq q.a.c.16. nph insulin 20 units subq q.a.m. and 6 units subq nightly.17. synthroid 88 mcg p.o. daily.18. lisinopril 7.5 mg p.o. daily.19. remeron 15 mg p.o. nightly.20. senna 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d.21. zocor 20 mg p.o. nightly.22. multivitamin one tablet p.o. daily.23. epoetin 60 , 000 units subq every saturday.escription document: 7-5594516 cssten teldictated by: podrasky , kevenattending: eske , mauricio thaddictation id 3139468d: 1/5/06t: 1/5/06