record #410758185449655 | fh | 41698736 | | 976802 | 4/20/1993 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | unsigned | dis | admission date: 4/20/1993 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 9/17/1993discharge diagnoses: recurrent endocarditis and end-stage cardiacvalvular disease.procedures performed: mitral valve replacement on 8 of february andcardiac transplantation on 16 of july . history of present illness: the history of present illness is thatof a 55-year-old female with a historyof rheumatic heart disease and endocarditis , who presented to theside lygreen medical center on 28 of august to the cardiology service with progressiveweight gain , lower extremity edema and shortness of breath. thepatient had a history of rheumatic fever as a child , and shepresented in 1985 with mitral and aortic valvular endocarditisfollowing a root canal. she subsequently underwent aortic andmitral valve replacement secondary to her aortic and mitralinsufficiency. her perioperative course was complicated by a brainabscess which was without neurologic residual deficit. in 1989 thepatient again presented with recurrent endocarditis and underwent arepeat mitral valve and aortic valve replacement. for the past yearprior to presentation , she has had increasing symptoms of rightheart failure including lower extremity edema and ascites which didnot improve with medical treatment. she has also presented withcomplaints of shortness of breath. in february of 1993 she underwenta transesophageal echo which revealed a perivalvular leak for whichshe underwent her third mitral valve replacement. tricuspidannuloplasty was performed at that time. the patient has neversignificantly improved past her most recent surgery and her mostrecent transesophageal echo performed in ta ca elponcevo threeweeks prior to presentation demonstrated again a perivalvularmitral leak. the patient has had a significant lower extremityedema with a weight gain of 30 pounds since her discharge one monthago. she has no shortness of breath at rest but does havesignificant dyspnea on exertion with minimal effort. she deniesfever or chills.past medical history: past medical history is as stated above. shealso has some chronic renal insufficiencywith baseline bun and creatinine of 40 and 2.0. she is status postcholecystectomy in 1990.medications: her medications on presentation to the paa talc rton health werelasix 100 mg b.i.d. , digoxin 0.25 mg every other day ,coumadin 5 mg alternating with 2.5 mg every day , and captopril 12.5mg three times a day. she is allergic to penicillin and codeine.physical examination: her admission physical exam was notable fora tired appearing female with a cardiac examnotable for mechanical valvular heart sounds and 4+ pitting lowerextremity edema.laboratory data: her admission bun and creatinine were 61 and 1.9.hospital course: she was admitted to the cardiology service andwas evaluated by the cardiac surgical service , andit was felt that mitral valve repair and/or replacement would bebeneficial to the patient. she , therefore , underwent mitral valverepair on 8 of february but was without significant symptoms for herright heart failure , and was placed on the cardiac transplant list.she underwent successful cardiac transplantation on 16 of july .  sincethat time , her main issues have centered over management of herresidual ascites with diuresis of her third spaced volume.additionally she had had some nose bleeds preoperatively which werefelt to be related to nasal polyps for which she was seen by theent service. she underwent routine post transplant biopsies andechocardiograms , all of which showed adequate acceptance of organsand good lv function. she continued to do quite well with theexception of some dysphagia early in her postoperative course whichwas found to be possibly secondary to some esophageal ulcerations ,but these have subsequently resolved and she is tolerating aregular diet. she was noted two days prior to transfer to thenorri verlan medical center to have some diffuse mildabdominal pain , and kub and upright revealed large amounts ofstool , and she felt great relief from soap suds enemas. she hasbeen stable on her medications with adequate cyclosporine levels.imuran was recently held secondary to neutropenia.disposition: the patient was transferred to the holls health on approximately the thirdpostoperative week from her cardiac transplant.discharge medications: her discharge medications include mylicon 80mg p.o. t.i.d. , trental 400 mg p.o. t.i.d. ,nystatin cream topically once per day , mycostatin powder topicallyonce per day , terbutaline 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , nystatin swish andswallow 10 cc p.o. t.i.d. , magnesium oxide 280 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,human regular insulin 4 units subcu q a.m. and before dinner andnph insulin 28 units subcu q a.m. , omeprazole 20 mg p.o. q a.m. ,cyclosporine 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. plus levels checked daily ,potassium 40 meq q a.m. , prednisone 27.5 mg p.o. q a.m. , lasix 40mg p.o. q a.m. , percocet as needed for pain and serax 10 mg asneeded at night for sleep.follow up: she will follow up with the cardiac transplantationservice. she is referred to rush-coo chry's calctist medical center for physical therapy rehabilitation as well as medicationsmanagement and assistance. she is discharged to u hospital on 4 of october . dictated by: werner yoon , m.d. mp09attending: ismael l. pruiett , m.d. af37  mz958/0261batch: 535 index no. b5omxl1guq d: 6/6/93t: 6/6/93[report_end]