record #535807097330845 | nch | 00138692 | | 203203 | 0/3/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 6/27/1994 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/27/1994history of present illness: the patient is a 78-year-old malewithout significant past medicalhistory who presented to casasrh hospital with chest pain , ruledin for an acute myocardial infarction and received thrombolysis.the patient had persistent chest pain and was transferred to thesantmi county hospital for further evaluation. cardiac riskfactors include no family history , no diabetes , nohypercholesterolemia , very distant smoking history , male , and nohypertension. the patient developed 6/10 substernal chest painradiating to his left arm , associated with nausea and shortness ofbreath while he was sitting in his car on the morning of admission.an hour later , he reached rougeuc care where his vital signsrevealed a blood pressure of 170/90 , heart rate was 85 , lungs wereclear to auscultation and an ekg which showed anterior stelevations with peak t waves. he was treated with front loadedtpa , iv heparin , iv nitroglycerin , aspirin , lopressor , butcontinued to have substernal chest pain and st elevations. he wastreated with morphine and managed to sleep intermittently but everytime woke up with persistent pain. an echocardiogram performed atthe ghamkins hospital revealed a normal ejection fraction ,inferior , posterior and septal hypokinesis. given his persistentchest discomfort , he was transferred to the oux ceny's medical center for post-thrombolysis , angioplasty.the patient went directly to cardiac catheterization which revealedthe following; he had a right dominant system with two serial 90%stenosis in the mid lad , no abnormalities in the rca , or leftcircumflex artery , hemodynamics revealed an lvedp of 14. lv gramrevealed apical hypokinesis with otherwise normal left ventricularsize , and function , right after that he underwent angioplasty ofhis left anterior descending artery with successful results( stenosis 90% down to 30 and 20% respectively ). of note , he didhave timi grade 2 to 3 flow prior to angioplasty. the patient wasthen transferred to the ccu without chest pain. past medicalhistory: this is notable for benign prostatic hypertrophy , statuspost turp , he is also status post an appendectomy. habits: thepatient is an x-smoker with a 48 pack year history , quite 30 yearsago. he drinks alcohol socially. medications on admission: atthe time of admission , the patient was on no medications at home ,however , medications on transfer were; lopressor 50 mg po bid ,aspirin 160 po q d , iv nitroglycerin at 50 micrograms an hour ,heparin at 1000 units an hour. allergies: the patient has noknown drug allergies. family history: there is no known coronaryartery disease. social history: the patient use to work inconstruction , he lives with his wife and has two children. hisgranddaughter is a nurse at lemh in of medical center .physical examination: on admission , the patient was an elderlymale , sleepy , no apparent distress. hisblood pressure was 110/80 , heart rate was 62 , respiratory rate was18. 93% oxygen saturation on six liters. the heent examinationshowed extraocular movements were intact , pupils equal , round andreactive to light and accommodation , oropharynx was benign. neckwas supple without lymphadenopathy. there was no thyromegaly.chest was clear to auscultation. cardiac carotids were 2+ withoutbruits. there was a regular rate and rhythm , s1 , s2 , there was asoft s4. there was no s3 , no murmurs. abdomen soft with goodbowel sounds , no hepatosplenomegaly. rectal was guaiac negative atskyrael dowdale onew vi savar university of medical center . the patient's extremities showed no edema ,pedal pulses were intact bilaterally. right femoral sheath inplace.laboratory data: on admission , the patient's potassium was 3.8 ,creatinine was 1.2 , creatinine kinase 960 with 99mbs , white count was 9 , hematocrit 34.3 , pt and ptt was greaterthan 110. ekg revealed normal sinus rhythm at 80 , left axisdeviation , negative 35 , first degree heart block , 2 mm stelevations in v2 to 3 , q waves in v1 to 5 , and small inferior qwaves. chest x-ray revealed bilateral low lung volume with mildpulmonary edema. his cholesterol was 173.hospital course: in summary , this is a 78-year-old man who isstatus post an acute myocardial infarction treatedwith front loaded tpa with persistent chest pain and st elevationsnow status post acute angioplasty of his lad , admitted to the ccufor further management. he was continued on iv heparin and ivnitroglycerin , lopressor , and aspirin. the patient was pain freefollowing angioplasty and his ekg post-angioplasty , showedimprovement in his anterior st segments with evolution consistentwith an anterior myocardial infarction. the patient's post-micourse was relatively uncomplicated with a peak ck of 960 , with 99mbs ( with which he presented on admission ). by hospital day two ,he had a ck of 336 , and 19 mbs. the patient was continued on ivnitroglycerin for 48 hours and was weaned to nitropaste andcontinued on iv heparin for a total of five days. the patient wasalso diuresed gently and within a few days had good oxygenation onroom air. the patient had a submaximal ett mibi prior to dischargeon hospital day seven , and went 9 minutes on a modified brucewithout chest pain or dyspnea. the patient's maximal heart ratewas 120 , and maximal blood pressure was 180. ekg showednormalization of his t-waves but no other diagnostic changesconsistent with ischemia. mibi images revealed very mildreversible ischemia in the apex , and apical portion of the inferiorwall. the patient will be discharged on a cardiac regimen whichincludes lopressor , aspirin , captopril which was initiated a fewdays prior to discharge , he will also be given sublingualnitroglycerin prn. the patient is scheduled to follow up with afull bruce ett mibi on 16 of june , to complete his risk ratification.he is also scheduled for an echocardiogram the same day. thepatient will follow-up with dr. alberto manual in cardiology at thefris rehabilitation hospital of and dr. trickey at park hospital .of note , the patient complained of significant dysphagia whilelying supine status post cardiac catheterization and upon morecomplete history it became apparent that he has had dysphagia forquite some time. the patient denied significant weight loss buthas had trouble with both solids and liquids. a video swallow wasobtained which revealed no aspiration and normal swallowingmechanism and a barium swallow was noted for significant esophagealdismotility and tertiary contractions. these results have beencommunicated to his primary physician ( dr. gonthier who will follow ).disposition: condition on discharge: at the time of discharge ,the patient was stable. medications on discharge:at the time of discharge , the patient was on lopressor 50 mg qid ,aspirin 325 mg q d , captopril 6.25 mg tid , sublingual nitroglycerinprn.discharge diagnoses: 1. acute anterior myocardial infarction2. coronary artery disease3. esophageal dismotilityprocedure performed: 1. cardiac catheterization , angioplasty.dictated by: regelmanattending: murray christoper langseth , m.d. nd6lw485/5233batch: 9416 index no. k7vf7e9877 d: 10/23/94t: 11/18/94cc: 1. jesse valerio , m.d. a miwood , south carolina 89552utah[report_end]