record #416584490679245 | bmc | 46490049 | | 5286761 | 7/18/2004 12:00:00 am | congestive heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 7/18/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/28/2005attending: quincy bridenbaugh mdprincipal diagnoses:1. hypoglycemia.2. altered mental status.other diagnoses:1. volume overload likely secondary to chf.2. possible pneumonia.past medical history:significant for:1. bilateral occipital cvas.2. diabetes , on insulin.3. hypertension.4. chronic renal insufficiency.5. coronary artery disease.6. visual impair with tunnel vision.7. monoclonal gammopathy.8. bilateral occipital cvas.9. history of left upper extremity thrombophlebitis.10. microcytic anemia.history of present illness:the patient is a 75-year-old woman who was found at home withaltered mental status by home services and home nursing withconfusion. her fingerstick was 37 , which increased to 42 withorange juice with improvement of her mental status. her insulinregimen has been stable for quite some time. she had taken herregular dose of novolin 40 units on the morning of admission.she was sent to the emergency department. she has notedincreasing bilateral lower extremity edema over one or twomonths , increased dyspnea on exertion , nocturia. in the ed , herambulatory sat was 91% on room air. glucose was still low and onchest x-ray there was evidence of a right pleural effusion andright lower lobe consolidation versus atelectasis. she was givenlasix , glucose , levaquin , and blood cultures were drawn. she wasadmitted for treatment of pneumonia.she has an allergy to propoxyphene.medications:1. lasix 80 mg p.o q.d. in the morning , 40 mg p.o. q.d. in theevening.2. atenolol 75 mg p.o. q.d.3. lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.d.4. amitriptyline 25 to 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n.5. multivitamins.6. aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.7. folate 100 mg p.o. q.d.8. lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d.9. iron gluconate 325 mg p.o. t.i.d.10. novolin 34 to 40 units subcu. q.d.11. epogen 5000 units subcu. q. week.family history:father died of an mi in his 70s , mother died of leukemia. nohistory of hematologic disorders in her family. no history ofthalassemia that the patient knows of.social history:she lives in an assisted living facility and has extensive homecare services and lives alone. she was previously a nurse. shehas children who live nearby.physical exam:vital signs: temperature was 95.2 , blood pressure 111/69 , heartrate 73 , sating 97% on room air. she was alert and oriented x3.speech and mentation were normal. no lymphadenopathy. 2/6systolic murmur at the base radiating to across her precordium.distant heart sounds. right lower lobe with decreased breathsounds and decreased phrenitis , wheezing throughout her rightlung. abdomen: obese , soft , nondistended , nontender , benign.extremities: 2 to 3+ pitting edema bilateral and symmetric.neurologic: she was moving all extremities well. left eye withslight lateral deviation. extraocular movements intact. pupilsequally round and reactive to light. evidence of an oldcataract.admission data:bnp of 1111 , creatinine was 2.4 which was below her baseline of2.6 to 2.8 , white count was 6.6 with no left shift , hematocritwas 35.7 which is up from her baseline of 27 to 33. mcv was 67.4which is stable and it has been in this range and she was foundto have in 4/27 a monoclonal gammopathy on spep. ekg showedan inferoseptal q wave , poor r wave progression , low voltage leftaxis deviation. echo in 4/27 showed an ef of 50 to 55% withmoderate-to-severe mr and tr , septal hypokinesis and a mibi atthat time showed no reversible ischemia. chest x-ray asdescribes above. ua negative for uti.impression:the patient was evaluated to be low likelihood for havingpneumonia. she was thought to more likely have volume overloadsecondary to chf. because of her visual problems and decliningphysical condition and deconditioning , patient's current livingsituation and arrangements are possibly insufficient for herincreasing needs and error in self administration of medicationsor increasing renal insufficiency or poor p.o. intake may haveprecipitated her hypoglycemic episode and altered mental status.hospital course:id/pulmonary: right lower lobe pneumonia versus chf , pleuraleffusion. this was treated initially with levofloxacin althoughit is unlikely consolidated lobar pneumonia because of thepatient's good clinical status , lack of fever and white count andlack of toxicity. sputum culture and gram stein wereunremarkable. pleural effusion on the right decreased onlyminimally with diuresis of 1 to 2 liters overnight and fordiagnostic and therapeutic purposes , the patient underwent athoracentesis on 2/11/05 and had withdraw 800 cc of clear yellowfluid whose chemistries and cell count were consistent with asterile transudative effusion. gram stein was negative.cultures are pending at this time and a chest x-ray may berepeated to rule out underlying pneumonia revealed by draining ofthe effusion. urine legionella was negative.renal: chronic renal insufficiency. creatinine is at a baselineof 2.6 and it decreased significantly on this admission possiblybecause of improved forward flow from discontinuation of her aceinhibitor.endocrinology: the patient was admitted with hypoglycemicdiabetes possibly secondary to infection or logistical and socialbarriers. her nph dose was cut to 20 units subcu. q.d. withlispro sliding scale q.a.c. and q.h.s. which she needed onlyminimally about 5 units a day and her sugars were well controlledon this regimen which supports the hypothesis that her nph doseof 34 units a day was too high beyond a certain point.cardiac:a. pump: the patient with chf , known valvular dysfunction ,exhibiting pulmonary edema , lower extremity edema and orthopnea.she was initially diuresed with iv lasix and it was noted thather weight was up 10 pounds from her prior admission. she wastransitioned to p.o. lasix after diuresing very well on thisregimen. she continued her lipitor and aspirin , atenolol waschanged metoprolol given her renal insufficiency. lisinopril wasswitched to captopril , then discontinued given her bumpingcreatinine while diuresing on the ace inhibitor. she wasslightly hypotensive with systolic blood pressures in the 90s to100s at one point and responded to a bolus of fluid , decrease inthe captopril and holding the lasix , unclear etiology , looksotherwise low. lasix was decreased to 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. and thepatient should have daily weights and electrolytes checked andrepleted to ensure that her diuresis is only moderate everyday nomore than one liter a day but is consistent such that she is ableto maintain her electrolytes and loose fluid overtime.heme: the patient has a monoclonal gammopathy and a microcytosiswhich might suggest thalassemia. she is on iron and epogen withan improved hematocrit from the prior admission but no change inher mcv , which suggests that she has more than renal diseasecausing her microcytosis. further workup of her monoclonalgammopathy will be deferred to her primary care physician.diabetic diet: low sodium , low fat , low cholesterol.prophylaxis: heparin and h2 blocker.disposition:the patient has been screened for admission to jack nor medical center of whereshe will go today. her goal is intense physical therapy andlearning greater independence in her daily functioning. herpelvic films were negative for fracture. she should be ambulatedt.i.d.discharge medications:1. lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d.2. metoprolol 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.3. lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.d.4. amitriptyline 25 to 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n.5. multivitamins.6. aspirin325 mg p.o. q.d.7. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.8. lisinopril should be held for the moment.9. iron gluconate 325 mg p.o. q.i.d.10. nph 20 units subcu. q.h.s.11. lispro sliding scale q.a.c. and q.h.s.12. epogen 5000 units subcu. q. week.ms mengel should follow up with dr. rufener when she is able towithin the next week or two. ellington is her primary carephysician , jarrett sandlan her pcp number is 287-274-1873. sheshould b switched to toprol as her blood pressure tolerates andto lisinopril as her creatinine tolerates after low-leveldiuresis of about 50 cc to one liter a day. studies pendinginclude cytology and culture of pleural fluid and follow-up chestx-ray on the day of her discharge. lasix dose can be increased asneeded for better diuresis.escription document: 2-7752992 emssten teldictated by: kuffel , carlosattending: kresha , otisdictation id 5039114d: 2/8/05t: 2/8/05[report_end]