record #417530162871505 | l | 92140947 | | 5043823 | 11/0/2005 12:00:00 am | bilateral knee pain | signed | dis | admission date: 9/0/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/2/2005attending: boria , darell m.d.diagnosis: multiple joint sepsis.history of present illness: mr. mcumber is a 73-year-oldgentleman who in march of this year developed enterococcus sepsisof both knees , his right shoulder and left wrist. he was takento the operating room in the beginning of august for irrigationand debridement of the aforementioned joints. the cultures weresignificant for enterococcus and he was started on iv antibioticsand discharged to motle health services . at cial memorial hospital , he continued tocomplain about bilateral knee swelling as well as shoulder andwrist pain and was therefore brought back for a repeat wash outand reassessment.past medical history: bph , pacemaker , atrial fibrillation.past surgical history: status post bilateral total kneereplacement approximately 10 years ago , status post left ankleorif.medications on admission:1. lopressor 50 mg po b.i.d.2. multivitamin.3. lisinopril 7.5 mg po daily.4. colace 100 mg po b.i.d.5. digoxin 0.25 mg po daily.6. nexium 40 mg po daily.7. unasyn.8. gentamicin iv.9. coumadin 7.5 mg po q.p.m.allergies: no known drug allergies.physical examination on admission: stable vital signs.temperature 97.8. left wrist tender to examination withdecreased strength of wrist extension , finger flexion andintrinsics to 3 out of 5. right shoulder and both knees withonly slightly decreased range of motion and little pain onpassive range of motion. neurovascularly intact.hospital course: the patient was taken to the operating room on11/29/05 for arthroscopic irrigation and debridement of both kneesas well as the right shoulder. there was a small effusion inboth knees which was aspirated prior to the irrigation and sentto the laboratory. these cultures show no growth to date withnegative gram stain. the right shoulder was ??_____?? withouteffusion. intraoperative exam: no purulent discharge wasencountered , however there was mild inflammatory response in bothknees and right shoulder. the left wrist was treated withirrigation and debridement as well as a proximal ??_____??carpectomy by dr. edmond augustave from hand surgery.intraoperative cultures for fluid aspirate as well as bone tissuefrom the proximal ??_____?? carpectomy demonstrated coag negativestaph. postoperatively , the patient was seen by physical therapyfor mobilization and weightbearing as tolerated with free rangeof motion of both knees and the right shoulder. he was placed inan orthomold splint for the left wrist. on request of thepatient's daughter , medicine was consulted but had littlerecommendations beyond small adjustments of his cardiovascularmedications.also , infectious disease was consulted and recommended a changeof antibiotics to ampicillin and gentamicin and vancomycin totreat the coag negative staph in the left wrist aspirate as wellas to continue treatment of the previous enterococcus infection.no cultures from the current admission have demonstratedenterococcus. the patient also underwent a transthoracic echo ,however , the report is pending at the time of discharge.finally , the patient was seen by nutrition who recommended a??_____?? protein diet with supplements t.i.d.lastly , the patient presents with chronically elevated ptt in arange of 40 to 70. after discussion with hematology , aninhibitor screen was sent , however , after the serum wasneutralized , ptt was found to be normal so likely the chronic pttelevation was secondary to a hep block in his picc line.the patient progressed well and was ambulating with minimalsupport at the time of discharge. he has remained afebrile withbenign-appearing incisions. he will be transferred to mount coursven community healthcare for further mobilization.discharge medications:1. ampicillin 3000 mg iv q. 4 hours x6 weeks.2. digoxin 0.25 mg po daily.3. colace 100 mg po b.i.d.4. gentamicin sulfate 400 mg iv daily x6 weeks ( please checkgentamicin peak and trough levels ).5. lisinopril 10 mg po daily.6. lopressor 50 mg po t.i.d. hold for systolic blood pressureless than 110 and heart rate less than 55.7. senna tablets 2 tablets po b.i.d.8. multivitamin therapeutic with minerals , 1 tab po daily.9. vancomycin 1 gram iv q. 12 hours x6 weeks.10. coumadin 7.5 mg po q.p.m. with a target inr of 2 to 3 foratrial fibrillation chronically.11. esomeprazole 40 mg po daily.12. oxycodone 5-10 mg po q. 4 hours p.r.n. pain.plan: the patient will be transferred to potan community hospital??_____??. he has a right antecubital picc line in place whichwill be flushed per protocol. he will require intravenousantibiotics for six weeks' time and during this time will requireat least weekly lab draws with cbc with diff , bun and creatinine.he will be followed by dr. bees from infectious disease atfieldbash perek medical center . he was followed by dr. odermott from infectiousdisease during his hospitalization at itorschild brookrisionxas hospital and health center mr. phillippe will require a hearing test while atter medical center due to his longterm gentamicin treatment. hewill require rehab services for mobilization , weightbearing astolerated , with free range of motion and no restrictions for bothlower and the right upper extremity. he will remain in hisorthoplast splint with b.i.d. dressing changes to the dorsalwrist incision. mr. groat will follow up with dr. gaston weissefrom ba medical center orthopedics on 10/7 at 9:00 andwith the hand service at cet ene memorial hospital on 11/17 at9:15. he will also follow up with dr. digmann from thma hospital gastroenterology for a colonoscopy on 9/29/05 at9:00 a.m. , also at randmar health on the cu terbsouthville , minnesota 75590escription document: 7-6671527 mcsfocus transcriptionistsdictated by: yaklin , giuseppeattending: nasca , raleighdictation id 4447844d: 8/5/05t: 8/5/05[report_end]