791411240prgh805047803832019/16/2000 12:00:00 amruptured aortic aneurismsigneddisadmission date :09/16/2000report status :signeddischarge date :11/03/2000principal diagnosis :ruptured parathyroid adenoma .history of present illness :ms. shuffa is a 73-year-old portuguese speaking woman who was transferred via med flight to verg medical center .she arrived intubated and was hemodynamically stable despite concerns of a dissecting aortic arch aneurysm .she initially presented to brottlake medical center on 9/15/00 complaining of acute onset dysphasia to liquids and solids .while she was in brottlake medical center , she developed new onset stridor , and an ent consult was obtained .they attempted a fiberoptic intubation with a # 6 endotracheal tube and found a 5 mm severely compressed airway .she was also found to have a differential systolic blood pressure and ecchymosis on her anterior chest .given these findings , she underwent a ct scan which showed a retrotracheal mass that appeared to obliterate the esophagus .this raised concerns for a hemorrhage , and she was transferred to verg medical center emergently .at the ingree and ot of weamanshy medical center , she underwent an emergent ct scan with iv contrast .this revealed no extravasation of contrast and no aortic aneurysm .however , it did show an anterior mediastinal mass compressing the trachea with a density consistent with a hematoma .she was admitted to the thoracic surgery service under the care of dr. sccrookes .past medical history :severe hypertension , angina , gerd , peptic ulcer disease , status post billroth ii , ovarian cancer , status post tah-bso in 1987 with a negative second look laparotomy in 1988 , chronic anemia , chronic left ear infection .medications prior to admission :celexa 10 mg p.o. q.d.; lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d.; capoten 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.; pepcid 20 mg p.o. q.d.; cardizem 180 mg p.o. q.d.; xanax 0.5 mg tabs .on transfer , she was on her preadmission medications plus unasyn and tigan 250 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n.allergies :no known drug allergies .social history :she is divorced and retired .she lives with her daughter , and denies any tobacco or alcohol use .physical examination :the patient is intubated .vital signs :temperature 98.6 , 66 .right arm was 180/80 , left 188/72 , and a-line was 151/61 .tidal volume is 700 with a rate of 10 , 10 of pressure support , and 10 of peep , and 100% fio2 , satting 100% .general :she was sedated and spontaneously moving all four extremities .neck :edematous .trachea was midline .she had bilateral crepitus in the anterior neck .the superior clavicular area showed no signs of central line access attempts .she had a 3 cm mobile gelatinous well-circumscribed mass in the right supraclavicular region .her anterior neck and chest had a 1 cm to 2 cm area of ecchymosis .lungs :she had bilateral expiratory wheezes .abdomen :soft with good bowel sounds .it was nontender .it was obese with a large midline defect consistent with a ventral hernia , as well as a smaller anterior defect in the left lower quadrant .both were easily reducible .pulse :on the right side , 2+ femoral , popliteal , dp , pt , and radial ; on the left side , 2+ femoral , popliteal , dp , pt , and radial .laboratory data :cbc was 8.7 , 25.3 , and 184 .coags 12.2 , 24.8 , and 1.0 .her gas was 7.47/40/332 .electrolytes were 143 , 3.4 , 105 , 28 , 24 , 3 , and 131 .ekg showed normal sinus rhythm with left ventricular hypertrophy and incomplete left bundle branch block .ct scan showed an anterior mediastinal mass compressing the trachea with air .it was consistent with a hematoma .hospital course :ms. shuffa underwent an egd and flexible bronchoscopy on 9/16/00 shortly after she arrived .this showed tracheal compressions but no other lesions that were obvious at the time .she was hemodynamically stable and remained on the ventilator .the differential diagnoses at this point consisted of hematoma vs. neoplasm vs. an abscess vs. a thyroid tumor .on 9/22/00 , she underwent a cervical mediastinoscopy .a biopsy of this mass was consistent with hematoma .the operative report shows that there was an abnormal area below the trachea to the left which represented a cavity between the esophagus , trachea , aorta , and spine that was full of clot .there was no active bleeding at the time .over the next several days , the patient remained hemodynamically stable on the ventilator .she had an elevated calcium level that raised the suspicion that this mass could be a hematoma coming from a ruptured parathyroid adenoma .the ionized calcium was elevated as was the parathormone level .given these findings , she underwent a sestamibi scan .the sestamibi scan showed findings that were consistent with a parathyroid adenoma in the right lobe of the thyroid .at this time , it was believed that her clot was due to a rupture of this parathyroid adenoma .dr. ear brought the patient to the operating room on 10/5/00 .she underwent a parathyroid exploration with resection of a ruptured ectopic right upper parathyroid adenoma , a biopsy of a normal left and right lower parathyroids , resection of a left upper parathyroid , and tracheostomy .she tolerated the procedure well and was transferred back to the surgical intensive care unit with her new tracheostomy working well .her postoperative course was complicated by serosanguineous pleural effusion on the left .this required a chest tube .her hematocrit continued to drop over the next couple of days despite normal platelet count , normal coags , and no obvious source of bleeding .it was believed that she was continuing to bleed in her chest .however , we are not quite sure why this was occurring .she underwent an extensive workup by hematology that revealed a bleeding diatheses of unknown etiology .it turns out that several people in her family have a similar bleeding diathesis of unknown etiology .in conclusion , by systems :1. neuro .the patient became intermittently agitated .we have been giving her haldol at bedtime as well as ativan p.r.n. throughout the day .she responds well to this .she speaks some english and seems to understand more than she speaks .she has a family member who is present for approximately 12 hours each day .she has been very helpful in translating and seems to say that ms. shuffa is in good spirits .2. cardiac .the patient 's blood pressure has been ranging from approximately 140 to 160 systolic .this is on a current regimen of lopressor 25 mg per ng tube t.i.d. as well as diltiazem 60 mg per ng tube t.i.d. , and lisinopril 10 mg per ng tube q.d. she occasionally gets hypertensive when she is agitated .for this , we have given her 10 mg of hydralazine .her blood pressure responds well to this .otherwise , she is in normal sinus rhythm and has been hemodynamically stable throughout her hospitalization .the patient developed a left femoral artery pseudoaneurysm after placement of a greenfield filter .this has been followed by the vascular surgery service here at the ingree and ot of weamanshy medical center .dr. lenni lung has been consulted .the aneurysm at the time of discharge is approximately 2.5 cm .they elected not to inject it with thrombin .they asked that the patient follow-up with dr. ear in approximately three to four weeks so that this aneurysm can be assessed .they have opted for conservative management given the size .3. respiratory .at the time of discharge , the patient remained on cpap with a peep of 7.5 and a pressure support of 9 .she seems to be tolerating this well as she has an o2 sat of 100% on 40% fio2 .her chest x-ray shows a left lower lobe hematoma that had greatly improved in the last few days .her right lung field is clear .her tracheostomy is functioning well , and we have had no problems with it .she will obviously need to be weaned as tolerated .we had her down to a low pressure support of 7 in the last week .with the pressure support at 7 , she became tachypneic and had to be brought back up to 10 .her oxygen saturation has always been good .4. gi .the patient is getting tube feeds via her ng tube of full strength jevity of 75 cc per hour .this is her goal .she tolerates them very well and has approximately 200 cc to 300 cc of stool per day .last week , she had copious amounts of stool in the range of 500 cc to 1000 cc of liquid stool per day .stool cultures have been sent numerous times as well as analysis for c. difficile toxin .these have all been negative .we believe the this was an osmotic diarrhea .since her tube feeds have been changed from full strength nephro to jevity , her diarrhea has resolved .she has been taking zantac , and the ph of her ng tube residuals have been in the 5 to 8 range .5. gu .the patient has had hypernatremia .she is approximately 10 kg up her overall body weight .we believe her to still be total body overloaded .over the last several days , we have been giving her approximately 500 cc to 1000 cc of free water through her ng tube .we also have been diuresing her with bumex .this seems to trend her sodium down .this will need to be monitored closely .her bun and creatinine have been normal , and she has always made good urine .6. heme .as stated before , the patient continued to ooze into her pleural space well after her definitive operation .she had an extensive workup by hematology which revealed a bleeding diathesis of unknown origin .before we removed her chest tube , we had to give her platelets .she had no problems with this .at the time of discharge , her hematocrit is stable in the 28 to 33 range .i stress that she cannot be anticoagulated .we have given her lovenox in the past , and she continues to bleed .therefore , she is on no dvt prophylaxis .she does have a left iliac deep vein thrombosis .she has a greenfield filter in place , and this is her only dvt prophylaxis .7. id .at the time of discharge , the patient has a urinary tract infection .she is growing enterobacter cloacae that is sensitive only to macrodantin from her urine cultures .interestingly enough , she also has enterobacter cloacae growing out of her sputum .this is also sensitive only to macrodantin .we do not believe that she has any respiratory process going on at the time .she is just begun on macrodantin at the day of discharge and should continue 100 mg per ng tube q.i.d. for a ten day course .her foley was changed the day before discharge .8. tubes , lines , and drains .the patient has a tracheostomy , ng tube , and a foley catheter .her central line , which was left subclavian quad lumen , was removed on the day of discharge .discharge medications :albuterol nebulizers 2.5 mg q.4h. and atrovent nebulizers 0.5 mg q.4h. , please alternate albuterol and atrovent ; rocaltrol 0.25 mcg per ng tube q.d.; calcium carbonate 1250 mg per ng tube q.i.d.; vitamin b12 1000 mcg im q. month , next dose is due nov 18 ; diltiazem 60 mg per ng tube t.i.d.; ferrous sulfate 300 mg per ng t.i.d.; haldol 5 mg iv q.h.s.; hydralazine 10 mg iv q.6h. p.r.n. hypertension ; lisinopril 10 mg per ng tube q.d.; ativan 1 mg per ng tube q.h.s.; lopressor 25 mg per ng tube t.i.d.; zantac 150 mg per ng tube b.i.d.; multivitamin 10 ml per ng tube q.d.; macrodantin 100 mg per ng tube q.i.d. x 10 days beginning on 11/3/00 .condition :stable , with active problems being respiratory failure , urinary tract infection , and bleeding diathesis .discharge labs :on the day of discharge , sodium 145 , potassium 4.1 , chloride 109 , bicarb 31 , creatinine 0.7 , bun 43 , glucose 116 .cbc 14.9 , 29.2 ( which is stable ) , and 398 .pt 12 , ptt 27 , and inr 1.0 .magnesium of 1.9 .calcium 8.1 .complications :none .disposition :the patient is being discharged to an acute rehab facility .she should follow-up with dr. ryna jescdrig as well as dr. lenni lung in the vascular surgery department in approximately three to four weeks .please call the surgical intensive care unit at verg medical center for any further details that may be needed .you can also page sta lung , m.d. as i am the dictating physician who has been taking care of ms. shuffa for quite some time now .i would be happy to answer any questions .my pager number at verg medical center is number 54930 .dictated by :sta lung , m.d. hu53attending :ryna r. jescdrig , m.d. gn3 qe555/1531batch :77428index no. dxxj8u8529d :11/03/00t :11/03/00