record #444686994885583 | sh | 56755636 | | 9353735 | 9/19/2003 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 11/25/2003 report status: signeddischarge date:admission diagnoses: pneumonia , rule out myocardial infarction( mi ).chief complaint: chest pain and shortness of breath.history of present illness: the patient is a 60-year-old malewith a history of hypertension , lvh ,and heroin use , who presented with shortness of breath timesseveral weeks which was sometimes associated with chest pain. thepatient noted that the shortness of breath was often brought on byheroin use ( he has not used cocaine for several years. his lastheroin use was the day prior to admission. ). his shortness ofbreath was "off and on , " worse with exertion. it was notnecessarily worse when lying flat. he has had this shortness ofbreath for several months , although as mentioned , was worse in theweeks prior to admission. his chest pain was hard for him todescribe , although , he did mention that it was not heavy incharacter. he admitted to some chest discomfort when he becameexcited or agitated. he also described his chest pain as sharp.there was no nausea. he did complain of some dizziness. his paindid not radiate to the neck or arms and was different fromheartburn pain. of note , the patient has not taken his outpatientmedications for the last six months and admits to dietnoncompliance with salty foods. the patient's last heroin use , asmentioned , was the day prior to admission. in the past , he hasnoticed that he cannot go more than two days without symptoms ofwithdrawal.review of systems: positive for constipation for which he takeslaxatives. there is no abdominal pain.occasional headache. no change in vision. no dysuria.past medical history: 1. remarkable for iv drug abuse - heroincurrently , cocaine in the past.2. hypertension times many years. 3. gout. 4. left ventricularhypertrophy.medications: the patient has taken no medications for six months.allergies: no known drug allergies.social history: the patient lives in ver la a with hisbrother and his sister. he is on disability since1992. he smokes one pack every 3 days. he rarely uses alcohol.he does use iv drugs as mentioned.physical examination: temperature 97.3 , heart rate 95. uponpresentation to the emergency room , hisblood pressure was 190/110 , respiratory rate 24 , o2 sat 100% on twoliters. general: the patient was seated and in no acute distress.heent: conjunctiva was slightly pink but nonicteric. extraocularmuscles are intact. pupils are equal , round , and reactive tolight. he had poor dentition. his jvp was 7 cm. lungs: clear toauscultation on the left. on the right there were some cracklesmidway up the lung field. heart: regular rate and rhythm with anormal s1 , s2. there were no murmurs , rubs , or gallops.abdomen: markedly hypoactive bowel sounds. his belly was soft andobese , nontender. there were no obvious masses. extremities: thepatient had 2+ pulses. there was no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema.neurologic: the patient was alert and oriented x 3. neural examwas otherwise nonfocal.admission laboratory data: sodium 141 , potassium 3.4 , chloride106 , bicarbonate 23 , bun 21 , creatinine2.1 , glucose 107 , calcium 8.4. ck was 158 with an mb of 2.2 ,troponin was 0.12. toxicology screen was negative. urinetoxicology was positive for opiates. urinalysis was remarkable for1+ blood and 3+ protein. cbc white count was 6.9 , hematocrit 45.7 ,platelets 301 , 000. pt was 13.2 , ptt 32.6 , inr 1.0.chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly with a right pleural effusion and aright middle lobe pneumonia. ekg on arrival to the emergency roomshowed an irregular ventricular rate at 156 which was likely atrialfibrillation vs flutter. there was a normal axis. there weret wave inversions in the inferior leads as well as v5 and v6. theekg was then repeated after the patient had received diltiazemwhich showed sinus rhythm at 86. there were still t waveinversions in avl and v6. there was borderline first-degree avblock. there was lvh and t waves were flat inferiorly.hospital course by systems: 1. cardiovascular - ischemia. thepatient ruled out for mi by cks buthad a troponin which peaked at 0.12. this was thought to be raterelated. blood pressure control was established with verapamil( the patient had severe bronchospasms to lopressor and it wasunclear whether it was cardiac asthma or real bronchospasticreaction. ) , clonidine , and losartan. ( the patient had cough anddesaturation to captopril. ) aspirin was given. a lipid panel waschecked and showed a total cholesterol of 188 , ldl 130 , hdl 56 andtriglycerides of 63. the patient was initially continued onsimvastatin. because of the worry of chf , ( history of low ef ,possible orthopnea ) an echocardiogram was performed which showedlvef only 25% with global hypokinesis and inferior/posteriorakinesis. the etiology of his heart failure was unclear as he hadnever had a known myocardial infarction in the past. a chemicalstress test was performed on november , 2003 , and showed noreversible defect but a large inferior scar. the patient wassubsequently taken to cardiac catheterization to determine whetherhe had coronary artery disease. there was no coronary arterydisease on left heart cath. right heart cath showed an elevatedpulmonary capillary wedge pressure close to 30 and a central venouspressure of 18. his cardiomyopathy was not shown to be ischemic inorigin. there was no indication seen for aicd placement. however ,for the elevated central pressures , the patient was aggressivelydiuresed with iv lasix which was then changed to p.o. torsemide.aspirin and simvastatin were discontinued given lack of coronaryartery disease for the sake of simplifying his medical regimen inorder to optimize the chance of medical compliance.2. pulmonary. the patient was given levofloxacin forcommunity-acquired pneumonia and improved. on the evening ofadmission , he had a severe bronchospastic reaction to lopressor sothis was discontinued. he received nebulizers around the clock forrecurrent wheeze and cough. it was noted that the onset of hiscough was after his captopril dosing. for this reason , captoprilwas discontinued and changed to losartan which he tolerated welland with resolution of his cough.3. renal. the patient's creatinine was noted to be up to themid-2s from a baseline in the mid-1s. potential etiologies onadmission where thought to be hypertension , gout , heroin use or alow flow during his cardiac arrhythmia on presentation. a phenolwas calculated and was shown to be less than 1%. a 24-hour proteinwas performed and showed over 3 gm of protein. the most likelycause of this proteinuria was thought to be chf , although , thepatient should have renal follow up. the patient refused mucomystin anticipation of his cardiac catheterization. he underwent arenal ultrasound which showed increased echogenicity of bothkidneys which was consistent with medical renal disease. there wasno hydronephrosis seen. there were bilateral renal cysts and aright renal calculus. the patient will be seen in follow up withdr. doles of renal.4. heroin addiction. the lcmc team was consulted for heroinaddiction. methadone was given and was tapered to off during hisadmission.5. other. allopurinol was given for his history of gout.6. prophylaxis. the patient was kept on subcu heparin.the patient will follow up with dr. boddorf , his primary caredoctor , on tuesday , november , 2003 , at 8:00 am and withdr. dunegan of renal on november , 2003 , at 1:30 pm.condition on discharge: stable.discharge medications: allopurinol 200 mg p.o. q day , losartan100 mg p.o. q day , albuterol inhaler twopuffs q.i.d. p.r.n. wheeze , amlodipine 10 mg p.o. q day andtorsemide 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.dictated by: grover prefontaine , m.d. yx55attending: jude petter , m.d. xz02gj258/458448batch: 99563 index no. pyfc9r5lxr d: 4/8/03t: 4/8/03cc: 1. dr. vanpelt , at ina university medical center[report_end]