record #449738789989806 | hmc | 20775881 | | 9405886 | 7/0/2005 12:00:00 am | congestive heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 9/10/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/1/2005attending: kemerer , dean omar mdservice: cardiology usoslee avenue , ri dar cincogarlstock ,  22451principal diagnosis: acute renal failure.problems and diagnosis: ischemic cardiomyopathy , coronary arterydisease , insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus with neuropathy ,hypercholesterolemia , hypertension , polyarticular gout , elevatedck , and osteoarthritis left hip.history of present illness: mr. sheumaker is a 65-year-old gentlemanwith known cardiomyopathy , coronary artery disease ,osteoarthritis , insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , whopresented with a 1 week of progressive fatigue and shortness ofbreath. in the prior 2 weeks , he had been started onhydrochlorothiazide. he had been nauseated and vomiting as aresult of percocet taken for his left hip pain with resultingdecreased p.o. intake. he was evaluated in his primary careclinic and felt to be in decompensated heart failure.in the emergency department , he was dehydrated and found to be inacute renal failure , hyperkalemic , and uremic. he complained ofjoint soreness , particularly in his third proximalinterphalangeal joints bilaterally. his bun and creatinine were182 and 4.8 respectively. his potassium 6.4 , his sodium 128 , andhis cpk 1356 , and his uric acid level 11.6. issues in thehospital included hyperkalemia , acute renal failure secondary todehydration , polyarticular joint soreness and left hip pain. forhis hyperkalemia , the patient was treated with calcium ,gluconate , insulin , kayexalate and his potassium level returnedto normal levels by hospital day #2. for his acute renalfailure , the patient was hydrated gently with 60 cc of normalsaline. the renal service was consulted and assisted withmanagement. the patient was urinating. renal ultrasound wasnormal. renal function returned to baseline and his creatinineat discharge was 1.4. his baseline is 1.6. with correction ofhis renal function , the patient regained strength. for his jointsymptoms , rheumatology was consulted who performed arthrocentesisof the left knee and diagnosed polyarticular gout. no treatmentwas initiated in the setting of impaired renal function and aconcern for fluid retention. he has a followup appointment withrheumatology in july 2005. for his hip pain , his orthopedist ,dr. schuchmann , evaluated him for possible future hip surgery.neurology was consulted regarding atrophy of thenar muscles andelevated cpk. they did not feel a secure diagnosis could be madeand recommended following daily cpk , which trended down over thecourse of hospitalization. followup appointment in neurology wasscheduled to discuss essential tremor and further investigate themuscle wasting with nerve conduction studies and emg if necessarybased on cpk levels. the patient had an echocardiogram onhospital day #2 , which showed an ejection fraction of 40 to 45% ,no pericardial effusion , and hypokinesis of the mid and distalseptum , mid and distal inferior wall and decreased global rightventricular function. the patent foramen ovale was visualized.at discharge , the patient was afebrile , hemodynamically stable ,euvolemic , ambulating , and saturating on room air , and on astable medical regimen. he was followed by vna at home startingfebruary , 2005 , for inr checks.followup appointments for cardiology , neurology , and rheumatologywere put in place. the patient was asked to contact his primarycare physician to schedule a followup appointment.on admission , the patient was afebrile and hemodynamicallystable.escription document: 6-5164249 sssten teldictated by: piermont , floydattending: suleski , chadwick antoniodictation id 0550727d: 8/24/05t: 8/24/05[report_end]