record #451911610002579 | ohmc | 73726819 | | 6004894 | 4/11/2006 12:00:00 am | chf exacerbation | signed | dis | admission date: 8/17/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 0/21/2006attending: demartino , harris mddischarge disposition:to rehabilitation hospital.discharge medications:enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily , amiodarone 200 mg p.o.daily , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , insulin nph 7 units q.a.m. and3 units q.p.m. subcutaneously , atrovent hfa inhaler 2 puffsinhaled q.i.d. p.r.n. for wheezing , magnesium gluconate slidingscale p.o. daily , oxycodone 5-10 mg p.o. q. 4h. p.r.n. pain ,senna tablets one to two tablets p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. constipation ,spironolactone 25 mg p.o. daily , coumadin 1 mg p.o. every otherday , multivitamin therapeutic one tablet p.o. daily , zocor 40 mgp.o. daily , torsemide 100 mg p.o. daily , oxycontin 10 mg p.o.b.i.d. , cozaar 25 mg p.o. daily , remeron 7.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. , andaspartate insulin sliding scale.discharge diet:discharge diet is 2 liters fluid restrict. liberal house diet.admission diagnosis:foot infection.principal discharge diagnosis:decompensated congestive heart failure , status post bilateralknee amputation , status post bka.return to work:not applicable.follow-up appointments:please follow up with primary care physician , dr. ricardo dzierzanowski , atpipe shanm hasb nota medical center within one to two weeks.please follow up with primary cardiologist , dr. edwin mellorwithin one month.operations and procedures:none.other treatments and procedures:none.brief resume of hospital course:chief complaint:shortness of breath.history of present illness:a 73-year-old man with a history of coronary artery diseasestatus post coronary artery bypass graft , ischemiccardiomyopathy , valvular heart disease , known ef of 15-20% as of6/25 , was admitted to the rose-le medical center fromno memorial with signs and symptoms ofdecompensated heart failure , and acute on chronic renal failure.on 11/0/06 , he was admitted with a large left foot toe ulcerthat was nonhealing. multiple surgeries were performed withpersistent nonhealing wounds: left great toe amputation on6/10/06 , which failed to heal despite sfa to perineal arterybypassing the composite vein. had a short cicu stay forhypotension postoperatively , maintained on dobutamine. on0/9/06 underwent debridement of left medial ulcer. on 10/12/06transmetatarsal amputation , on 7/3/06 , debridement oftransmetatarsal amputation. on 11/29/06 received a left belowthe knee amputation. his renal function had been normal prior tothe final surgery until 6/21/06 to 3/25/06 when his creatininerose from 1.3 to 2.2. he was discharged to acute rehabilitationand was there noted to have this acute renal failure , which wasthought to be due to prerenal azotemia , but his creatinine atthis point had not changed much from 2.2 to 2.5 during his stay.diuretics were held at rehabilitation facility until two daysprior to admission. he was noted to have increased shortness ofbreath. patient denies any other symptoms up to that pointexcept occasional lightheadedness , depressed mood , and lack ofmotivation. no orthopnea , uses 1 pillow regularly , deniesparoxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , and denies dyspnea on exertion , butvery limited movement.past medical history:significant for hypertension , gerd , hypercholesterolemia , cadstatus post mi in 1996 , received a cabg in 0/26 with a lima tolad , svg to pda , svg to om1 , and mitral valve annuloplasty.diabetes mellitus , insulin-dependent , status post bilateral belowthe knee amputation , likely from diabetes related foot ulcers ,history of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter , history ofsick sinus syndrome , history of second-degree heart block , aicdplaced 2/10 complicated by hematoma. history of admissions forhyponatremia. status post left sfa to perineal artery bypass toincompetent pain in 0/2 . medications on admission:amiodarone 200 mg p.o. daily. atrovent one to two puffs inhaledq.i.d. p.r.n. for wheezing , celexa 20 mg p.o. daily , coumadin 2.5mg p.o. daily , diovan 80 mg p.o. daily , enteric-coated aspirin325 mg p.o. daily , lantus 25 units every day subcutaneous , lasix160 mg p.o. b.i.d. , lipitor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , lopressor 50 mgp.o. b.i.d. , therapeutic multivitamin one tablet p.o. daily ,solsite topical.impression:on admission , a 73-year-old male with severe cardiomyopathy andejection fraction of 15% admitted for decompensated heart failurein the setting of his diuretics being held due to an acute renalfailure. review of chart at the time of admission showed renalfailure is actually present since the perioperative period of hisbka. after being admitted to the cardiology service , he wasdiuresed successfully to his dry weight , with a significantimprovement in his oxygen saturation , his creatinine , and venouscongestion.other active issues he was treated for include urinary tractinfection , diabetes mellitus , acute on chronic renal failure ,depression.hospital course by systems:1. cardiovascular: ischemia: known coronary artery diseasestatus post cabg x3 , admitted with troponin elevation likely dueto demand in the setting of heart failure for having hisdiuretics held. this was noted to trend down post-diuresis. wecontinued aspirin. initially , we held his ace inhibitor givenhistory of cough and his arf , and ultimately restarted thepatient on arb , after his creatinine had normalized. statins hadbeen held until we were certain his liver function tests weredecreasing.2. cardiovascular pump: the patient remained in floor volumeoverload on presentation , maintained on 2 grams salt daily , 2liters fluid restriction diet with 1-2 liters per day goaldiuresis attained by using 100 mg iv torsemide b.i.d. with theaddition of 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide b.i.d. 30 minutes priorto each torsemide dose , an average of two liter fluid negative.diuresis was affected over the course of a week , and his statusgradually improved. spironolactone was initially held due tohigh k but was re-added on 1/30/06 .  his jugular venousdistention dropped from initial presentation above the earlobesat a 30-degree angle to a jvp of 6-7 cm at 30 degree angle on theday of discharge. two days prior to discharge , his creatininebegan to rise , suggesting prerenal azotemia secondary to overdiuresis and when his torsemide was reduced to 100 mg p.o. daily ,hydrochlorothiazide was dropped from his regimen , patient'screatinine began to drop again , and patient was able to maintaineven ins and outs of fluid for two days prior to discharge.3. cardiovascular rhythm: patient is ventricularly paced onsymmetry for duration of hospitalization , history of atrialfibrillation on coumadin , was maintained on amiodarone duringthis hospitalization.4. pulmonary: the patient with initial o2 dependence.continued inhaled ipratropium his home medication. afterdiuresis , the patient was able to achieve oxygen saturation of100% on room air.5. renal: initial acute on chronic renal failure thoughtsecondary to volume overload and forward flow in the context ofdecompensated congestive heart failure. his renal functionimproved , as he was diuresed and his heart likely moved to moreuseful part of the starling curve. renal ultrasound was negativefor hydronephrosis as was test for urine eosinophils.hyponatremia was likely due to heart failure improved withdiuresis.6. heme: the patient maintained on coumadin with an inr goal of2-3. in order to achieve this goal , his coumadin dose wasadjusted to mg p.o. every other day. he will be followed bychemo and coumadin service after discharge with weekly tests tomake sure that his inr is maintained within this range.7. endocrine. diabetes mellitus , insulin-dependent , covered onnph q.a.m. and q.p.m. with aspartate sliding scale for durationof hospitalization.8. psych: the patient was restarted on celexa per pcp forlikely depressive mood response to recent bilateral kneeamputation. it is what is quite possible that patient'sdepression precedes the bilateral knee amputation and informsmuch of his overall care. the patient's pcp , dr. micheal l davirro , aware of the situation and managing as outpatient. thepatient was also seen by the inpatient psychiatry consultation ,and started on remeron 7.5 mg p.o. daily in place of celexa. heis discharged on this medication. the patient is status post onefall from the bed during the hospitalization. head ct at thattime showed no evidence of bleed or trauma to the head to head.examination of back and extremities reveals no focal tendernessor ecchymoses.9. infectious disease. the patient initially treated forurinary tract infection with uncomplicated course withciprofloxacin.10. wound: wound care nurse consulted for bka wound and smalldecubitus on his back , was treated with duoderm , bka site healingwell.11. fluids , electrolytes and nutrition: the patient remained oncardiac , 2000 calorie diabetic diet , however , as it becameapparent that he was severely malnourished , his diet wasliberalized to allow for nutritional supplementation.12. ppx: the patient maintained on subcutaneous heparin andnexium as dvt and gi prophylaxis during this hospitalization.13. code status , full code.to do plan1. discharge the patient to rehab on current regimen. patienthas been working with pt and ot during this hospitalization andappears well positioned to take advantage of rehabilitationfacilities services.2. maintain new prescription of remeron , follow up withpsychiatry to assess depressive disorder/adjustment disorder.3. the patient has been off beta-blocker. pcp may choose tostart beta-blocker at a low-dose in the outpatient setting.4. fasciculations noted during hospitalization finefasciculations at hands in surga hospital .  maybe secondary tomalnutrition and diaries is , but may merit further workup in anoutpatient context.5. the patient had rising alkaline phosphatase duringhospitalization , ct of chest incidentally showed gallstonepresent within the gallbladder , follow up lfts in the outpatientcontext and possible right upper quadrant ultrasound may meritconsideration and further outpatient workup of this patient. thepatient will follow up with coumadin clinic given goal inr of2.0-3.0. the patient's creatinine and bun should be checkedalong with electrolytes to make sure patient is doing well oncurrent maintenance diuretic schedule of 100 mg torsemide p.o.daily and spironolactone.code status:full code.discharge condition:stable. discharged to rehabilitation.escription document: 2-3432980 emssten telcc: noe w. mcgoldrick m.d.toncc: keneth bartuska m.d.nutrisochi zie-bri memorialjose mi antdictated by: doulani , devinattending: leeder , brendondictation id 7465299d: 7/14/06t: 7/14/06[report_end]