record #455105691179146 | dsmh | 59601098 | | 0475499 | 8/17/2006 12:00:00 am | metastatic adenocarcinoma | unsigned | dis | admission date: 9/10/2006 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 5/2/2006attending: kelliher , ashley mdservice: general medicine service.principal diagnosis: altered mental status.list of problems/diagnoses: altered mental status , metastaticadenocarcinoma , diabetes type 2 , history of sarcoid by report ,status post cholecystectomy , status post laminectomy of t9through t12.brief history of present illness: ms. malloch is a 51-year-old woman with a history of metastatic adenocarcinoma of unknownprimary origin who presents as a transfer initially from ons hospital with altered mental status. the patient was initiallydiagnosed with cancer and presenting with lower back pain in10/22 when she was found to have lytic spinal and pelviclesions on mri. immunohistochemistry was most consistent withpancreatic cancer origin. she was admitted to the laso in early march for cord compression andunderwent xrt and laminectomy by orthopedic surgeon by dr.kasey mahaxay . during that admission , she was also noted to havea large pericardial effusion and underwent pericardial window.she was then discharged from madei coxcli hospital on1/30/06 to rehab. at rehab , the patient was noted to havedifficulties expressing herself and word finding at 01:00 a.m. onthe day of admission. prior to this episode , she had normalspeech and mental status and it is pertinent to note that on theday prior to admisison she had been seen in oncology clinic withdr. randell youkhana and hence was started on zometa. the patientdenies any fevers , chills , neck stiffness or focal neurologicsymptoms. she was initially sent to inh hospital and medical center where anoncontrast ct scan was done and found to be negative for anacute process and was then admitted to general service. at thatpoint , it had been over three hours since symptom onset and hercancer further precluded any possible tpa therapy. an mri wasthen attempted to be obtained , however , the patient requiredintravenous conscious sedation to attempt the mri secondary toagitation and anxiety. the patient received total of 2 mg ofversed , 4.5 mg of iv ativan and 2 mg of oral ativan and severalattempts were made to facilitate the mri. she was unable to sitfor mri and was able to sit for a head ct with angiography. asshe became more and more somnolent , it was felt that additionalsedation might necessitate intubation. the anesthesia servicecalled and pointed out that the mas mri machine isnot compatible with intubated patients. the patient was thentransferred to down camp for possible mri withintubation. an lp at this time was also unable to be performedsecondary to her restlessness.past medical history: metastatic adenocarcinoma , diabetesmellitus type 2 , history of sarcoid ( although never had abiopsy ) , status post cholecystectomy , status post laminectomy oft9 , t11 and t12.medications on transfer: lorazepam 0.5 mg q.3 h. p.r.n.agitation , omeprazole 20 mg p.o. daily , senna two tabs p.o.b.i.d. p.r.n. constipation , metoprolol sr 50 mg p.o. daily ,ondansetron 8 mg p.o. b.i.d. , furosemide 20 mg p.o. daily ,insulin sliding scale , insulin humalog 6 units a.c. , insulin nph10 units b.i.d. , enoxaparin 40 mg daily subcutaneous , docusate100 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. constipation , tylenol 650 mg q.6 h.p.r.n. pain.allergies: penicillin with an unknown reaction.admission physical exam: temperature of 98 degrees , heart rate81 , blood pressure 107/51 , respirations 20 , sating 97% on 2 l.general exam showed a drowsy-feeling patient who was oriented x1( not for place or time ). heent exam shows pupils equal , roundand reactive with no photophobia. neck exam showed a supple neckwith no lymphadenopathy. pulmonary exam showed lungs clear toauscultation bilaterally. cardiovascular exam showed a jvp thatwas difficult to assess , heart rate showed a regular rate andrhythm , no murmurs , rubs or gallops , distal pulses were bilateraland 2+ and symmetric. abdominal exam showed an obese abdomen , isnontender and nondistended with positive bowel sounds.extremities exam showed extremities warm and well perfused.neurologic exam showed the patient was alert and oriented only x1with 2+ patellar reflexes , 2+ ankle reflexes and 1+ brachialreflexes. the patient was poorly responsive to questions andcommands , hence a motor and sensory exam was unable to beobtained , however , the patient was moving all extremities.pertinent labs on admission: included a negative tox screen ,otherwise unremarkable. ekg showed sinus tach to 103 beats perminute , slightly low voltage. chest x-ray showed cardiacenlargement without acute or active disease. head ct showed noacute intracranial abnormality noted. urinalysis showed traceleuk esterase , 5 to 10 white blood cells , 200 rbc's , however ,urine culture showed no growth.hospital course by problem:1. neurologic: the patient was initially admitted to themedical icu for possible mri with intubation. however , uponarrival , the patient was alert and oriented enough to refuse themri/mra ( this was desired to rule out metastatic disease versusleptomeningeal disease ). because she did not require she wasthen sent to the floor on 0/11/06 .  a full toxic metabolicworkup was obtained , which showed the ammonia levels withinnormal limits and nonreactive rpr , b12 assay that was actuallyslightly elevated and a tsh level of 10.6 ( a full thyroid panelwas also sent , which was pending at the time of discharge andshould be followed ). given the concern for her slight pyuria onher ua and her altered mental status she was also given athree-day course of ciprofloxacin , however , her urinary culturewas negative. she presently , within the first 24 hours of herstay on the floor , her mental status improved remarkably and wasat her baseline. hence , an mri/mra was not performed , as thiswould require the patient to undergo further sedation ( it wasfelt that her significant amount of benzodiazepines that weregiven previously only served to worsen her mental status ). an lpwas not indicated at this time since she had returned to herbaseline. an echo was ordered but was not performed secondary tothe fact that the patient had had a previous echo within the lastmonth , but was desired to rule the very small chance that she hadmarantic endocarditis with embolic phenomenon. at the time ofdischarge , the patient was at her neurologic baseline and wasalert and oriented x4. the likely source of her altered mentalstatus appears to be toxic metabolic multifactorial etiology ,including the possibility of zometa effect , the urinary tractinfection and possible hypothyroidism.2. onc: the patient has an appointment with dr. garrett gavidia ofshiresy medical center oncology on 4/18/06 to initiate gemzarchemotherapy.3. ortho: the patient has a followup appointment with dr. maronof spi medical center orthopedics on 6/15/06 forfurther followup.4. endocrine: the patient will be discharged to rehab on aregimen of lantus and sliding scale insulin. she should have hertfts followed up as they are pending at this time for possibleinitiation of hormone replacement.5. id: the patient finished a three-day course of ciprofloxacinfor possible urinary tract infection , however , her urinaryculture was negative.6. cardiovascular: the patient was initially transferred onmetoprolol , however , her blood pressures have been wellcontrolled in-house. if her blood pressures are elevated atrehab , one could consider restarting her metoprolol.7. disposition: the patient was in stable condition anddischarged back to rehab for further care.physical examination at discharge: temperature of 98.6 , bloodpressure of 110/60 , heart rate 98 , respirations 18 , sating 99% onroom air. general exam shows a slightly obese female who isalert and oriented x4 in no acute distress. cardiovascular examshows a regular rate and rhythm with no murmurs , rubs or gallops.neck shows a supple neck with no jvd. pulmonary exam showslungs clear to auscultation bilaterally. abdominal exam shows aslightly obese abdomen that is nondistended and nontender withgood bowel sounds. skin exam shows a midline back scar that ishealing well and nontender with no erythema. extremity examshows no calf tenderness with trace edema.medications at discharge: tessalon perles 100 mg p.o. t.i.d.p.r.n. cough , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , guaifenesin 10 ml p.o.q.6 h. p.r.n. cough , lantus 20 units subcu q.p.m. , insulinregular sliding scale q.a.c. and at bedtime , zydis 5 mg p.o.nightly , zydis 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. agitation , oxycodone 5 to10 mg p.o. q.6 h. p.r.n. pain , lovenox 40 mg subcu daily.disposition: the patient was discharged to rehab for furthercare in stable condition.pending tests: the patient's thyroid function test should befollowed up.followup plans: the patient has an appointment with dr. isaias j haitz of gyday hospital oncology on 4/18/06 .  phone number is424-038-7926. the patient also has a followup appointment withdr. riley hovick on 11/11/06 .  his phone number is 810-877-5333.the patient should also followup with primary care physician inone to two weeks.escription document: 5-6527185 cssten teldictated by: brandewie , scotattending: olvera , chadwickdictation id 4188440d: 1/12/06t: 1/12/06[report_end]