151467772 | gmh | 50235763 | | 633015 | 4/5/1992 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 11/1/1992 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/24/1992principal diagnosis: 1. coronary artery diseasesecondary diagnoses: 2. hypetension3. dyspepsia4. adjustment disorder with anxietyid/chief complaint: the patient is a 70 year old white femalestatus post non q wave mi in 18 of october , withthrombolytic therapy and cardiac risk factors of long standinghypertension , hypercholesterolemia , and history of tobacco use , whopresents upon transfer from ra memorial hospital with chiefcomplaint of post mi unstable angina.history of present illness: the patient has the history oflong standing hypertension and has hadchest pain in the past including at least one previous episode ofrule out mi. she was admitted on 26 of march , to hen mo gardensworth sent hospital withsigns and symptoms consistent with acute mi , and apparentlyreceived salvage therapy with iv streptokinase and tpa. limitedrecords are available from this hospitalization. the patientapparently had a submax exercise tolerance test before dischargewhich is reportedly unremarkable. upon discharge from woodgi hospital the patient additionally did well and then had threeepisodes of typical substernal chest pain with minimal exertionthat were relieved with sl nitroglycerin.on 10 of august , the patient presented to cooker view home hospital with anepisode of heavy substernal chest pressure that was similar inquality to her previous mi. this pain was not relieved with slnitroglycerin. there was no associated shortness of breath ,nausea , vomiting or diaphoresis. in the ist medical center er , she wastreated with sl and topical nitrates with subsequent relief of herchest pain. her presentation was also significant for a chestx-ray consistent with interstitial edema. otherwise , herexamination was unremarkable and her ekg showed no worrisomeischemic changes. she ruled out for mi and on 21 of august , wastransferred to cnmc on iv heparin , iv nitroglycerin , beta blockadeand aspirin. at the time of her admission , the patient was withoutchest pain and denied other associated symptoms.past medical history: coronary artery disease status post mi in18 of october , as above; long standing hypertension ,75 pack year history of cigarette smoking , hypercholesterolemia ,chronic dyspepsia , history of positive ppd with normal chest x-ray ,remote history of breast cancer. past surgical history: statuspost cholecystectomy , status post appendectomy , status post renalstone removal , status post c. section x 3 , status post breastlumpectomy. medications on transfer: iv nitroglycerin at 140micrograms per minute , iv heparin drip , lopressor , aspirin one aday. allergies: penicillin which causes anaphylaxis. familyhistory: negative for premature cardiac disease , negative fordiabetes mellitus. social history: most significant for herhusband's recent diagnosis of gi malignancy which will requireinpatient admission at ormc and the recent death of a brother-in-lawat gh .physical examination: the patient is an obese white female in noapparent distress , pleasant and cooperative.the vital signs were temp 97.8 , pulse 48 , bp 140/60 , respirations16 with o2 sat of 95% on o2 2 liters per minute. heent exam wasunremarkable. there were normal carotid upstrokes without bruit.the chest exam showed bibasilar rales right greater than left butotherwise the lungs were clear to auscultation , no wheezing. cvexam showed a regular rate and rhythm with distant heart sounds ,normal s1 and s2 , question of s4 , no appreciable murmurs. theabdomen was obese , soft with normoactive bowel sounds. there wereprevious surgical scars. no masses or hepatosplenomegaly wasnoted. there were normal femoral and distal pulses , no peripheraledema , no peripheral bruits. neuro exam was unremarkable.laboratory data: the admission labs showed hematocrit 34.2 , wbc6.7 , platelets 159 , 000 , ptt 50.0 on iv heparin.urinalysis was essentially within normal limits. glucose was 110 ,bun 12 , creatinine 1.0 , sodium 142 , potassium 4.0 , chloride 106 andbicarb 29. lft's were all within normal limits. admission ck was32 , albumin 3.9 , magnesium 2.0 , uric acid 6.2 , cholesterol 186. thechest x-ray was unavailable. ekg showed sinus bradycardia at arate of 50 , first degree av block axis +60 , st elevation in leadsv2-v4 , poor r wave progression leads v1-v3.hospital course: the patient did well over the first 24 hours ofadmission. on 29 of november , the patient went to cardiaccath. angiogram showed 50% mid circumflex , 60% mid left anteriordescending and only luminal irregularities in the right rca ,anterior wall hypokinesis but overall good lv systolic functionwith an ef of approximately 72%. average pulmonary capillary wedgepressure was 20 and right atrial pressure 9. cardiac output was4.5 with cardiac index of 2.5. careful review of the cath filmsshowed no hemodynamically significant lesions felt to beresponsible for the patient's chest pain. echo performed on12 of august , showed left ventricular hypertrophy with low normal lvsystolic function , estimated ef of 50-55% , inferior posteriorhypokinesis , and trace of tricuspid and mitral regurgitation. therewas mild right ventricular hypertrophy and normal estimatedpulmonary artery pressure.postcatheterization , the patient showed mild hypertension which wastreated by the addition of a calcium channel blocker , and she wasalso diuresed for fluid overload. prior to discharge , she had twoadditional episodes of chest pain that were low in intensity butprolonged. each of these required several nitroglycerins andantacids to be relieved. it was felt that the chest pain wasunlikely to be cardiac in origin and more likely represented eithergi symptomatology or an anxiety reaction. the patient repeatedlyexpressed great concern over her husband's illness and understoodthe possible connection between this and her chest pain. on 7 of august ,the patient underwent exercise treadmill test on the modified bruceprotocol. she went 10 minutes and 30 seconds stopping secondary tofatigue. maximum heart rate was 108 , maximum bp 164 systolic , nosymptoms and no ekg changes , and the test was interpreted asshowing no evidence for ischemia. the patient was discharged tohome and is to follow up at amc .complications: none. medications on discharge: nifedipine xl 90mg po q am , lopressor 50 mg po b.i.d. , zantac 150 mg po q hs ,aspirin 81 mg po q d , serax 15 mg po q 6 h or q hs prn ,nitroglycerin 1/150 grain q 5 minutes x 3 sl prn chest pain.condition on discharge: good. follow up care: with her primarycare physician , dr. gayle demeritt , and her cardiologist , dr. mark willians , at acsh .ve222/3116leslie f. buzis , m.d. wc6 d: 10/9/92batch: 4860 report: a0512m76 t: 9/17/92dictated by: ian waler , m.d.cc: 1. ricardo r. heald , m.d.2. freddie l. zipperer , m.d.