record #967058465584299 | rcmc | 25179146 | | 5157749 | 9/21/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 9/12/2005 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: borba , garret m.d.service: surgical icu.principal diagnosis: perforated colon status post colectomy.active problems list:1. status post colectomy , perforation of colon.2. coronary artery disease.3. congestive heart failure secondary to adriamycin.4. atrial fibrillation5. respiratory failure status post tracheostomy.6. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( steroid dependent ).7. pseudomonas pneumonia.8. chronic pain.9. chronic renal insufficiency.10. steroid dependent.11. perforated colonic diverticula.12. sepsis.13. anxiety with adjustment disorder.past medical history:1. coronary artery disease as above.2. congestive heart failure , ejection fraction 30% , secondary toischemic cardiomyopathy and adriamycin toxicity.3. atrial fibrillation ( paroxysmal ).4. nonsustained ventricular tachycardia.5. hypertension.6. steroid-dependent chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.7. staphylococcus bacteremia.8. acute on chronic renal failure.9. leg blisters.10. transient ischemic attacks.11. gout.12. cholecystectomy.13. appendectomy.14. testicular cancer status post chemotherapy.allergies: no known drug allergies , history of achilles tendonrupture with levofloxacin.medications:1. amiodarone , 200 mg daily , t-tube.2. peridex , 15 ml orally b.i.d.3. digoxin , 0.0625 mg , t-tube q.o.d.4. pepcid 20 mg t-tube b.i.d.4. folate , 1 mg , t-tube daily.5. heparin , 5000 units subcutaneously t.i.d.6. nph , 9 units subcutaneously q.a.m.7. insulin regular , sliding scale q.4h.8. prednisone , 5 mg , t-tube q.a.m.9. multivitamin daily.10. sarna topically daily.11. nystatin suspension 5 ml po q.i.d.12. thiamine , 100 mg , t-tube daily.13. flovent , 88 mcg mdi b.i.d.14. collagenase topically daily.15. combivent , 2 puffs mdi q.i.d.16. albuterol , 2 to 4 puffs q.i.d. p.r.n.17. darbepoetin alpha 100 mcg subcutaneously every week.18. xenaderm topically b.i.d.19. ativan ng tube 0.521 mg q.6h. p.r.n. anxiety.20. trazodone 50 mg po q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia.21. oxycodone 1 mg/ml , 10 mg solution via t-tube q.4h. p.r.n.pain.hospital course: this is a 50-year-old man who was admitted toarlricks community hospital on january , 2005 , with respiratory failureand fever diagnosed with pneumonia and copd flare. he wasstarted empirically on antibiotics. sputum culture was positivefor pseudomonas and treated with ceftazidime and levofloxacin.also , noted at ieldha hospital to have 4/4 blood culturespositive for coagulation-negative staphylococcus. he was placedon vancomycin. during the course of this hospital stay , he hadother medical issues including: non-st elevation myocardialinfarction. also noted to have upper gastrointestinal bleed dueto supratherapeutic inr. also had acute on chronic renal failurewith a creatinine of 7.7 , thought to be due to iv contrast. hewas transferred to o medical center icu after going intorespiratory distress at sti versut center , for which he was intubated.he was continued on antibiotics at onnau hospital .  inthe shore health center surgical icu at the quinla , he was also noted to havean improvement in his acute renal failure with his creatinineimproving to 2.0 range. with iv fluids , his non-st elevation miappeared to be resolving; however , was noted to have ongoingfevers despite antibiotics. noted on abdominal ct to have freeair. he was taken to the operating room on november , 2005 ,and had sigmoid colectomy with colostomy and he remainedintubated postoperatively , and was transferred to ins surgicalicu. postoperatively , he was continued on broad-spectrumantibiotics including vancomycin , ceftazidime , and was continuedon fluconazole for fungemia. intraoperatively , he was noted tohave perforation in his sigmoid colon. he in the icu , requiredlevophed and vasopressin. the patient was noted to have ongoingrespiratory failure. he required reintubation on march ,2005 , after a brief period of extubation. he returned to theoperating room on march , 2005 , where he had an ileostomy ,t-tube placement , and a tracheostomy. in addition , his abdomenwas explored and adhesions were lysed. postoperatively , he wasnoted to have further improvement of his renal failure. he wasnoted to have improvement in acidosis; however , had ongoing slowwean off the ventilator. he was noted to have on followup ct tohave intraabdominal fluid collections along with his dailyfevers. on march , 2005 , he had a ct-guided drainage andplacement of a drain for one of these fluid collections. he hadsome ongoing improvement and was continued on vancomycin , flagyl ,fluconazole , and ceftazidime post procedurally. repeat culturesof sputum yielded ongoing pseudomonas in the sputum sensitive toceftazidime. also noted to have aspergillus in his sputum.thought to have possible colonization of his airways. onfollowup ct , he was noted to have ongoing fluid collection aswell as daily fevers. he was discontinued on his central linesand had a change-out of his arterial line. he also obtained atagged white blood cell scan , which revealed an area ofenhancement in his right lower quadrant consistent with possibleabscess; however , this patient had decreasing frequency of feverswith discontinuation of lines and continuation of antibiotics. moreover , thearea of enhancement on the tagged cell scan did not correlate with asignificant fluid collection on abdominal ct. after consultation with theinfectiousdisease service , interventional radiology service , and the surgical service , itwas decided that there would be no intervention done on thiscollection at this time. otherwise , the patient now is startingpo and is having ongoing low-grade temperatures , but clinicallyimproving. from the respiratory standpoint , was liberated from mechanicalprior to discharge from the icu.laboratory data: white cell count 16 , 000 , hematocrit 27 ,platelets 443. chem 7: sodium 134 , potassium 4.3 , chloride 95 ,bicarbonate 28 , bun 36 , creatinine 1.7 , calcium 9.1. pt 14.9 ,inr 1.2 , ptt 34.1.assessment and plan: this is a 50-year-old man with history ofcoronary artery disease , congestive heart failure , chronicobstructive pulmonary disease , chronic renal insufficiency , whois status post colectomy with ileostomy secondary to perforatedsigmoid colon , status post tracheostomy for respiratory failure ,prolonged icu course secondary to pneumonia , sepsis , acute onchronic renal failure , and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.neurological: the patient is now off sedative drips. he isalert and oriented and has chronic pain secondary to degenerativelower back disease; however , his pain has been well controlledwith his current regimen. psychiatric consult was obtained andhe is noted to have an adjustment disorder with anxiety.plan is to continue oxycodone as needed and continue ativan asneeded.cardiovascular: status post non-st elevation myocardialinfarction , congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction of30% , has had no further signs of pulmonary edema by x-ray or byclinical symptoms. he is off pressors. he has beenhemodynamically stable and in normal sinus rhythm.plan is to continue amiodarone via t tube and continue digoxin.we will diurese with lasix as needed to keep i's and o's even.respiratory: continues to be slow steroid wean. liberated from mechanicalventilation prior to transfer out of the icu. s/p tracheostomy , historychronicobstructive pulmonary disease , completing course of pseudomonas pneumoniatreatments on ceftazidime.gastrointestinal: continues to be on tube feeds , goal rate. wewill start advancing po diet as tolerated with a plan to weantube feeds as the patient is able to tolerate further po's. wewill plan to start po medications as tolerated.fen/gu: chronic renal insufficiency with baseline creatinine 1.5to 1.7. acute renal failure , resolved. he has been having goodurine output with no major electrolyte abnormalities. we willcontinue to diurese with lasix as needed to keep i's and o'seven.endocrine: this patient remains on insulin sliding scale. wewill titrate to keep euglycemic.heme: the patient has been anemic with hematocrits in the mid20s and has been stable , likely due to nutrition and anemia ofchronic disease. we will continue to watch hematocrit on thefloor and continue dvt prophylaxis.id: currently on day #19 of ceftazidime of 21. the patient hasbeen doing well off vancomycin , fluconazole , and flagyl. he hasbeen having low-grade temperatures , but improved from the lastseveral weeks. we will continue to monitor jp output as well asto follow clinically. he is noted to have an ongoing fluidcollection in his abdomen and may warrant a followup ct at somepoint in the future. transferred to floor with cardiacmonitoring.disposition: this patient's condition is stable.escription document: 8-8131812 issten teldictated by: heusner , bentonattending: schilmoeller , nathanaeldictation id 6255893d: 9/24/05t: 9/24/05[report_end]