record #480308525704854 | aho | 92346989 | | 342272 | 6/5/1996 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/8/1996 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/11/1996principal diagnosis: neck pain.additional diagnosis:1. left bundle branch block on electrocardiogram.2. non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.3. hypertension.4. hypercholesterolemia.5. chronic neck pain.6. impotence.history of present illness: mr. tijerino is a 63-year-old man with ahistory of non-insulin-dependentdiabetes mellitus , hypertension , and chronic neck and shoulder painwho presented with a near syncopal episode and a new left bundlebranch block on ekg. he has a history of intermittent episodes ofsudden onset of an ill defined , non-painful sensation that shootsfrom the region of his left shoulder , up his left neck , and thenacross his head bilaterally. the episodes are usuallyinstantaneous. he does not know how often he has them , but doesnot think that he has had more of these episodes recently. he haspreviously been worked up for chronic neck and left shoulder painthat is attributed , in part , to a history of trauma. x-rays haveshown degenerative arthritis in the cervical spine , especially inthe region of c6 and c7 with evidence of foraminal narrowing andnerve root impingement. he also has evidence of multipleosteophytes in his cervical spine and in the region of his leftshoulder. he has had a normal head ct in 0/8 this pain hasbeen responsive to physical therapy and traction in the past.today , he had a similar such episode while turning his head to theright while driving his car. the shooting sensation from hisshoulder up to his head was accompanied by a near loss ofconsciousness and was followed immediately by flushing withdiaphoresis and then weakness and dizziness that persisted forabout 5-10 minutes. he did feel nauseated , but did not vomit. hedenied any chest pain , shortness of breath , or palpitations. hepulled his car over to the side of the road and had his frienddrive him to ttfc. he continued to feel weak. he was noted attfhc to have a left bundle branch block on his ekg that was newcompared to an ekg obtained in 6/1 he was , therefore , referredto mibo hospital for further evaluation andmanagement. on system review , he gives a history of dyspnea onexertion and exertional fatigue with shortness of breath that isrelieved by rest. this has not changed recently and seems stable.he also had stable three pillow orthopnea. he denied anyparoxysmal nocturnal dyspnea or swelling of lower extremities. hiscardiac risk factors include diabetes mellitus , hypertension , apositive family history , hypercholesterolemia , and he is a formersmoker.past medical history: 1. non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ,diagnosed in 1992 , last glycosylatedhemoglobin was was 12.7 in 3/23 2. possible coronary arterydisease , last exercise tolerance test in 1/5 was without anyevidence of ekg changes. 3. hypertension diagnosed in 1992. 4.hypercholesterolemia with baseline cholesterol 251 , ldl 175 , hdl32 , and triglycerides 262. 5. chronic neck and left shoulder painas above. 6. history of headaches , possible migraine headacheversus cluster headaches. 7. probable gastroesophageal refluxdisease by history. 8. history of a right sided pneumonia andempyema status post right sided chest tube four weeks , now withchronic pleural changes. 9. benign prostatic hypertrophy , last psawas 2.88 in 3/23 10. impotence , normal prolactin andtestosterone levels. 11. history of balanitis. 12. history ofpsoriasis.admission medications: 1. glipizide 5 mg p.o. q.day. 2.hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. q.day. 3.aspirin. 4. terazosin 2 mg p.o. q.day. 5. zantac 150 mg p.o.b.i.d. 6. ativan p.r.n. 7. percocet p.r.n.allergies: no known drug allergies.family history: notable for coronary artery disease in hisfather who died of a myocardial infarction at age66. there is no family history of diabetes mellitus orhypertension.social history: the patient is a retired custodian. his wife diedin the last year , just after having undergone acoronary arterial bypass graft. he has three children who lives inthe area. he claims he quit smoking in 1990 after a 40 pack yearhistory.physical examination: his temperature was 98.5 , heart rate between90 and 100 , blood pressure 144/96 ,respiratory rate 16 , and oxygen saturation 95% on two liters bynasal cannula. he appeared to be a middle aged man who wascomfortable lying in bed. heent examination was notable for a 5 mmnodule on the palpebral margin of his right upper eyelid. sclerawere anicteric. pupils were equal , round , and reactive to light.extraocular muscles were intact. oropharynx was without anyevidence of lesions or without any adenopathy or masses. there wasno jugular venous distention apparent and no bruits heard. hisneck was nontender to palpation. his back was nontender topalpation. no muscle spasm was palpable. his lungs were clear toauscultation bilaterally. his heart rate sounded somewhat fast ,but was regular. his heart sounds were distant with an indistinctfirst heart sound , but a second heart sound without evidence ofsplitting. no s3 was heard. there was a question of a fourthheart sound. there was also question of a grade i/vi systolicmurmur at the left sternal border and apex. he had good radial anddorsalis pedis pulses. his abdomen appeared obese with activebowel sounds. it was soft and nontender. his liver span wasestimated at 6 cm by percussion. he did not have any splenomegaly.his stool was heme occult negative. extremities were without anyevidence of cyanosis , clubbing , or edema. his skin was warm andmoist without any lesions. neurologic examination showed an alertand oriented man with fluent speech and 5/5 motor strength in hisupper extremities and lower extremities bilaterally. his touchsensation was intact in his lower extremities bilaterally. he hadnormal biceps and patellar deep tendon reflexes bilaterally. histoes were downgoing on babinski's test bilaterally.laboratory data: electrolytes were within normal limits with bun24 and creatinine 1.2. serum glucose was 204.his white blood cell count was 7 , 900 , hematocrit 42% , and platelets282 , 000. his prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin timeswere normal. his liver function tests were normal. hischolesterol was 227 with triglycerides 311. his cardiac troponinwas 0.0. ekg , on admission , showed sinus rhythm at a rate of 30with the left bundle branch pattern that was new compared with anekg from 6/1 his axis and intervals were normal. a chest x-raydemonstrated a right lower lobe opacity and bilateral pleuralthickening , no acute infiltrate , and no evidence of congestiveheart failure.hospital course: the etiology of his symptoms was unclear , but hewas admitted to rule out myocardial infarction ,given the fact that he had a left bundle branch block pattern onhis ekg that was new compared to a previous ekg. it was not knownwhether this new ekg finding was acute or whether this had occurredsometime between 5/23 and the present time. he was started onheparin for the possibility of an acute myocardial infarction. hewas maintained on aspirin and started on a beta blocker. hishydrochlorothiazide was discontinued. he was started onsimvastatin given his hypercholesterolemia. he ruled out for anacute myocardial infarction with cardiac enzymes. he had anechocardiogram on 9/30/96 which demonstrated borderline leftventricular hypertrophy with low normal systolic function and anestimated ejection fraction of 45%-50%. no regional wall motionabnormalities were noted. he had mild left atrial enlargement ,mild mitral regurgitation , and mild tricuspid regurgitation. aholter monitor on 9/30/96 showed a predominant rhythm of normalsinus rhythm with a few atrial premature beats and ventricularpremature contractions. there was no evidence of high gradeventricular ectopy. because of his uninterpretable ekg , heunderwent exercise testing with mibi imaging on 7/6/96. heexercised for 6 minutes on a standard bruce protocol. this wasdiscontinued due to fatigue. his heart rate increased frombaseline 58 to a peak of 94 , and his blood pressure changed from130/60 at rest to 140/50 at peak. his peak rate pressure productwas 13 , 200. his ekg was notable for left bundle branch patternwith 1 mm st depressions. mibi imaging demonstrated small apicaland septal rift consistent with mild ischemia. because he remainedasymptomatic , and because his exercise test was without evidence oflarge areas of myocardium at risk , he was discharged home on7/6/96. he will follow up with his cardiologist for furtherevaluation as indicated. his medication regimen was optimizedduring his hospital stay.discharge medications: 1. enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o.q.day. 2. atenolol 100 mg p.o. q.day. 3.hytrin 1 mg p.o. q.h.s. 4. glipizide 10 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 5 mgp.o. q.h.s. 5. zantac 150 mg p.o. q.h.s. 6. simvastatin 10 mgp.o. q.day. 7. nitroglycerin 0.4 mg sublingually q.5 minutes asneeded for chest pain.discharge disposition: he was discharged home on a lowcholesterol , low saturated fat diet.follow-up: he will follow up with his primary physician andcardiologist in the next week.dictated by: rocky j. corpe , m.d. estcattending: kevin m. knight , m.d. shuz569/9112batch: 26329 index no. p3uqxm5chu augustmay[report_end]