record #493964256723065 | ombh | 25942820 | | 5031758 | 9/0/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 8/16/2005 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: pellegrini , gregory mdadmitting service:general surgery service.history of present illness:this is a 47-year-old female with a history of relapsingpolychondritis and morbid obesity , who presented six weeks priorto admission with admission of choledocholithiasis and acutecholecystitis. the patient was treated with a percutaneouscholecystostomy tube as bridging therapy; however , the patient'scholecystostomy tube was subsequently accidentally pulled out inthe weeks preceding her current admission. in the interim , thepatient denied any associated nausea , vomiting , fever , ordiarrhea. she was subsequently scheduled for an exploratorylaparotomy with an open cholecystectomy , which took place on3/0/2005 . in order to fully address concerns related to herhistory of polychondritis , the patient was scheduled for apreoperative admission and pulmonary evaluation and wassubsequently admitted to the general surgery service on thedirection of dr. arron mcdunn on 9/27 . past medical history:relapsing polychondritis with associated interstitial lungdisease , tracheal , ear cartilage and nose involvement , managedwith dapsone , adalimumab , and steroids at home; morbid obesity;copd/osa on cpap at home; osteoporosis; bilateral avascularnecrosis of the hip; depression.past surgical history:notable for prior sinus surgery , bilateral carpal tunnel surgery.home medications on admission:included levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. daily , flagyl 500 mg p.o.daily , prednisone 10 mg p.o. q.a.m. , trazodone , effexor ,neurontin , quinine , seroquel , flexeril , oxycontin , duoneb ,advair , caltrate plus vitamin d , colace , esomeprazole.allergies:no known drug allergies.social history:the patient has no notable alcohol , tobacco or iv drug usehistory. the patient is married with two daughters , iswheelchair bound and lives in ven , utah 37388physical examination upon admission:temperature 97.4 , heart rate 80 , blood pressure 110/90 ,respiratory rate 20 , and saturating 95% on 4 liters. thepatient's general exam is notable for a morbidly obese ,middle-aged female. heent exam demonstrated pupils equal , roundand reactive to light and accommodation. the patientdemonstrated no evidence of cranial nerve dysfunction.respiratory exam demonstrated lungs clear to auscultationbilaterally , but distant breath sound secondary to her habitus.cardiovascular exam demonstrated normal s1 and s2 with regularrate and rhythm. abdomen was noted to morbidly obese , soft ,nondistended with mild tenderness in the right upper quadrant.extremities noted to demonstrate mild peripheral edema with warmand well-perfused clinical examination and no evidence of acuterun of ischemia.laboratory exams upon admission:sodium 142 , potassium 3.8 , chloride 106 , bicarbonate 32 , bun 8 ,creatinine 0.9 , glucose 120. alt 69 , ast 37 , alkalinephosphatase 147 , total bili 0.7 , amylase 20 , lipase 15 , totalprotein 6.4 , albumin 3.3 , calcium 8.1 , white blood cell count5.7 , hematocrit 29.6 , platelets 152 , pt 14.7 , ptt 26.3 , and inris 1.1. ua was noted to be clear without evidence of urinarytract infection.ekg was notable for normal sinus rhythm at 62 beats per minutewithout evidence of acute ischemia. preoperative plain film ofthe chest demonstrated unremarkable sinus and no acutecardiopulmonary process seen.hospital course:the patient was admitted to the general surgery service on thedirection of dr. morgan taverner on 8/16/2005 . as mentionedpreviously , her admission was scheduled several days prior to aplanned surgery in order to permit adequate evaluation by thepulmonary , thoracic surgery and rheumatology services in order toclear for her planned surgical intervention given her history ofpolychondritis. following extensive review by the above-namedservices , the patient was cleared for operative intervention andsubsequently underwent an open cholecystectomy on 3/0/2005 .for detailed description of the patient's operative procedure ,please see the relevant operative report.the patient tolerated the procedure well and was subsequentlytransferred to the surgical intensive care unit for furtherevaluation and management postoperatively. given concerns abouther airway and for continuous monitoring given concerns about herbody habitus. while in the intensive care unit , the patientcould rest well clinically without acute events. she remainedstable from a cardiovascular standpoint and her pulmonary statuswas noted to be stable through the duration of her initialadmission to the intensive care unit. following closedobservation in the icu , the patient was subsequently cleared fortransfer to the regular patient floor on postoperative day numberone , 10/5/2005 . while on the regular floor , the patientinitially progressed well clinically. she was successfullyweaned from iv analgesia and was transitioned to oral painmedications without complications. she initially remained stablefrom a cardiovascular perspective and was noted to demonstrate astable wound exam with declining liver function studies throughpostoperative day #2 , 2005.at this point , once the patient was deemed stable for dischargeto home , she demonstrated an acute episode of increased work ofbreathing and shortness of breath with an abrupt increase in heroxygen requirements. despite aggressive attempts to improveoxygenation through noninvasive means , the patient proved tounable to achieve oxygenation status with these measures and wastransferred emergently to the intensive care unit for intubation.of note , arterial blood gas drawn in the context of this episodedemonstrated a widened a-a gradient concerning for a possiblecoronary embolus. given the patient's habitus and her weight ,however , she was deemed inappropriate for a pe protocol scanningand was treated presumptively for pulmonary embolus. theremainder of the patient's admission was spent in the intensivecare unit and was punctuated by respiratory failure , suspectedpulmonary embolus requiring ongoing heparin therapy , developmentof intraabdominal bile leak requiring repeat exploratorylaparotomy and drainage procedure.the subjects of the patient's admission will be further describedby system as follows:1. neurological: for the duration of her extended stay in theintensive care unit , the patient remained adequately sedated withiv agents including fentanyl and versed. of note , the patientwas noted to demonstrate massive requirements of sedatinganalgesic agents in order to provide adequate comfort. despitethis , however , she was successfully weaned to a regimen ofintermittent opioid dosing via her g-tube , which she was noted totolerate without complication. with gradual withdrawal of hersedating agents , the patient was noted to be appropriate andresponsive and demonstrated no evidence of neurologicalcompromise. of note , the patient at no demonstrated any evidenceof acute neurological events or cerebrovascular accidentsnecessitating further evaluation from a neurological perspective.at the time of this dictation , the patient is noted to be alert ,oriented and comfortable on an analgesia regimen consisting ofstable fentanyl infusion and p.r.n. oxycodone. she was noted tomove all extremities to command , noted to be appropriate toquestioning , demonstrates no evidence of neurological compromiseon gross exam.2. cardiovascular: the patient's intensive care unit stay waspunctuated by progressive septic physiology requiring ongoingpressor support for a period of several weeks in order tomaintain adequate profusion pressures. as her intraabdominalprocess progressed , the patient was noted to require increasingsupport with multiple agents including neosynephrine andvasopressin; however , following appropriate surgical debridementof her intraabdominal bile collection , she was graduallysuccessfully weaned from pressor agents and at no pointafterwards required further aggressive pressure therapy in orderto maintain adequate pressures. she at no point demonstrated anyevidence of acute myocardial ischemia despite multiple rule outprotocols in the setting of hypertensive episodes. serialbedside echocardiograms demonstrated no evidence of acutemyocardial dysfunction or diminution of ejection fraction and shesubsequently was noted to stabilize from cardiovascularperspective. of note , over the course of her admission , thepatient was noted to demonstrate periodic episodes of idiopathicbradycardia unrelated to oxygenation status; however , she at nopoint required external pacing or atropine therapy in order totreat such episodes and was noted on all occasions asspontaneously resolved her bradycardic episodes. at the time ofthis dictation , the patient is noted to be stable with regularrate and rhythm and no evidence of acute myocardial dysfunction.she is free of pressor support and continues on a standingregimen of lopressor 25 mg per j-tube q.6h. without complication.followup ekg demonstrated no evidence of myocardial ischemia andshe has been free of episodes of bradycardia for at least thepast 10 days.3. pulmonary: as described above , the inciting events for thepatient's return to the intensive care unit on postoperative day#2 was noted to be acute respiratory distress secondary topresumed pulmonary embolus. unfortunately , the patient's bodyhabitus precluded her from a definitive pulmonary embolusprotocol ct scan and she was therefore started empirically on ivheparin therapy in order to provide adequate anticoagulation.her weight incidentally also precluded her from additionalstudies to evaluate for evidence of pulmonary embolus including avq scan , thus her pe treatment regimen was based on empiricevidence only. following institution of heparin therapy , thepatient's oxygenation status was noted to gradually improve ,although her pulmonary status was noted to decline withsubsequent increase in fluid requirements given her septicphysiology. serial day x-rays performed in intensive care unitdemonstrated evidence of fluid overload through the course of herstay , which also likely compromised her oxygen status initially.given her ongoing requirement for pressor therapy while followingthe development of her intraabdominal pathology , the patient wasrecommended for a tracheostomy procedure given the expectation ofprolonged mechanical ventilation requirements. she thereforeunderwent peg placement on 10/14/2005 following an extensivediscussion with the patient's family regarding her likelyprognosis. for a detailed discussion of this procedure in thecontext of a concomitant repeat exploratory laparotomy andj-tube/g-tube insertion , please see relevant operative report.following placement of this tracheostomy , the patient progressedwell clinically from respiratory perspective. following drainageof her intraabdominal bile leak , the patient's septic physiologywas noted to gradually resolve and she was successfully weanedfrom pressor therapy. with cessation of her pressors , adequatediuresis was rendered possible and the patient was effectivelyfluid oscillated for the duration of her intensive care unitstay.with the fluid oscillating , the patient's respiratory statuscontinued to improve as such her serial chest x-ray demonstratedgradually resolving over load. with diuresis , the patient wassubsequently gradually weaned from pressor support to successfultrach collar trials , which she accomplished without complication.as the time of this dictation , the patient is noted to betolerating to the extended trach collar trials during the daywith planned ventilatory arrest at night. her respiratory examdemonstrated lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally withmild bibasilar crackles and no additional evidence of acuterespiratory failure. her trach site is clean , dry , and intactwith no evidence of cuff leak. the patient is successfullytolerating trials of a passe muir valve , which has provided herwith ability to vocalize while on her trach collar trials. apotential plan for trach tube downsizing has been deferred forthe movement given concerns about the risk of returning thepatient to the operating room for this procedure. given the lackof acute indication for such a procedure , it has been deemed bestto defer such an intervention until such surgery deemedabsolutely necessary.4. gi: shortly , following the patient's readmission to theintensive care unit , she was noted to demonstrate graduallyincreasing liver function studies suggestive for potential repeatbiliary obstruction. the gi service was , therefore , enlisted tocome and tell me potential appropriateness of an ercp. followingextensive discussions with the gastroenterology service , thepatient was subsequently recommended for an ercp to be performedin the operating room , which subsequently took place on10/14/2005 . this selection of the operating room as the site forintervention was informed on the basis of her inability to beeffectively scoped in the radiology suite given her body habitus.in the operating room , the patient underwent successfulplacement of a biliary stent with liberation of a mild amount ofbilious fluid from the common bile duct. no sphincterotomy wasperformed at this point. following placement of the stent andsuccessful prominence of the ercp , the patient was initiallynoted to improve clinically with a transient diminish in herbiliary studies. however , shortly following , she again notedgradual increase in her biliary studies and gradual worsening inher general clinical exam associated with increasing fevers andseptic physiology. serial abdominal exams were notable forgradual increasing abdominal distension , necessitating a returnto the operating room on 10/14/2005 for a combined tracheotomy ,exploratory laparotomy , drain placement , g-tube/j-tube placement ,and biliary drainage procedure. for a detailed description ofthe patient's operative procedure , please see a relevantoperative report. of note , the patient was noted to demonstratea 3-liter bile collection intraoperatively with no evidence ofbowel injury or ischemia upon performing of this procedure.multiple intraabdominal drains were placed and no evidence ofactive bile leak was noted at the time of this procedure.postoperatively , the patient progressed well clinically. herbiliary function studies were noted to gradually normalizefollowing the drainage procedure and her abdominal exam remainedstable for the duration of her posterior course. followingeffective drainage of this collection , the patient's septicphysiology was noted to gradually correct , allowing effectiveweaning of her pressor support and marked in all organ systemfunctions. she thereafter successfully started no tube feeds fornutritional supplementation , which she tolerated withoutcomplication. at all times , effective gi prophylaxis wasprovided by pepcid and ppi therapy. at the time of thisdictation , the patient's gi exam remained stable. her abdomenwas soft , nondistended and nontender with evidence of morbidobesity per her baseline exam. her surgical incisions were notedto be clean , dry and intact with staples in place. of note , hermidline incision was left partially opened in order to promoteadequate wean drainage postoperatively and to permit healing bysecondary intervention; this incision has continued to remainstable with no evidence of active infection postoperatively. herdrain output has gradually diminished over her postoperativecourse , permitting removal of one of her jp drains. her g-tubeand j-tube sites remained clean , dry and intact with her tubesremaining in place and functional. the patient is currentlyrunning tube feeds at goal via her j-tube without complication.her g-tube continuous to vent appropriately without incident.5. gu: following transfer , the patient to the intensive careunit her urinary output continued to be monitored on a continuousbasis in order to reassess her hydration status. through thecourse of her time of septic physiology , the patient demonstratedvariable urine output correlated approximately with her bloodpressures. with resolution of her septic physiology , however ,the patient was noted to be exuberantly responsive to efforts atdiuresis and was quickly noted to be independently productive oflarge amounts of urine without diuretic therapy. shesuccessfully oscillated her fluids through the duration of heradmission , at no point demonstrated any evidence of acute renalfailure or electrolyte abnormalities. she at no pointdemonstrated any evidence of a hemodialysis requirement duringthe course of her admission. at the time of this dictation , thepatient remained independently productive of adequate amounts ofurine in order of 700 cc per hour via her foley catheter. herelectrolytes remained stable and bun and creatinine demonstrateno evidence of acute renal failure.6. heme: as stated previously , the presumed etiology of thepatient's return to the intensive care unit was thought to be anacute , hemodynamically stable pulmonary embolism. the patientwas immediately started on heparin therapy , which continued forthe duration of her icu stay until the point of transition tocoumadin therapy. of note , the patient required large doses ofheparin in order to provide a therapeutic ptt with hourlyinfusion rate in order of 2000-2500 units of heparin per hour.following prolonged heparin invasion and gradual stabilization ofher clinical status , the patient was gradually transitioned tocoumadin therapy via her j-tube without complication. at thetime of this dictation , the patient remained borderlinetherapeutic on coumadin with an inr of 1.7 on a daily dose ofcoumadin 5 mg per day. she at no point has demonstrated anyevidence of postoperative hemorrhage or bleeding instability; herplatelet count has likewise remained stable for the duration ofher stay. although , the potential for placement of an ivc filterwas discussed on several occasions during the duration of hercurrent admission , the patient's body habitus precludes her fromeffective radiological placement of such a filter and suchintervention is therefore been deferred at least for the timebeing.7. id: following transfer of the patient to the intensive careunit , she was noted to demonstrate gradually worsening septicphysiology associated with spiking fevers for much of her initialintensive care unit stay. serial cultures of blood , sputum ,urine and biliary drainage were notable for evidence of nearpan-resistant pseudomonas in her biliary drainage site. aninfectious disease consultation was therefore obtained. thepatient was recommended for broad-spectrum antibiotic therapyconsisting of linezolid , ceftazidime , flagyl and colistin. withgradual worsening of her clinical condition , the patient wassubsequently started on a course of xigris for a 96-hour periodper xigris protocol. while on xigris , the patient did notdemonstrate any appreciable improvement in her septic status andshe was therefore recommended for operative intervention on10/14/2005 as described above. following drainage of herabdominal bile collection , the patient was noted to gradualimprove clinically with slow resolution of her septic state.followup cultures continued to demonstrate evidence of biliarypseudomonas colonization necessitating ongoing colistin therapy.with further speciation of her cultures , the patient wassubsequently weaned from all antibiotics except for colistin andunderwent placement of a picc line for planned prolonged colistintherapy. with stabilization of her clinical status , the patientwas subsequently restarted on her home dapsone regimen in orderto promote pcp prophylaxis given her home immunosuppressive andsteroid regimen. at the time of this discharge , the patientremains afebrile with stable white blood cell count and noadditional culture information suggested for ongoing infection.she has a stable and appropriately positioned upper extremitypicc line , which is functional and continues to permit adequatedosage of her standing colistin antibiotic regimen. as of thisdictation , the patient is planned for ongoing colistin therapyfor several weeks pending modification by the infectious diseaseservice.8. endocrine: in the context of her icu readmission , thepatient was noted to demonstrate widely fluctuant blood sugarsrequiring continues therapy with a portland protocol insulinschedule. following successful resolution of her septicphysiology , however , the patient was successfully weaned frominsulin therapy without complication and was noted to demonstratestable blood sugars for the duration of her stay. given her homesteroid requirement for her chronic polychondritis , the patientwas placed on a steroid taper for the duration of her intensivecare unit stay , which she continues at the time of thisdictation. at no point did she demonstrate any evidence of acuteadrenal insufficiency or thyroid dysfunction in the course of heradmission.at the time of his dictation , the patient remains underevaluation for planned transfer to a vented rehabilitationfacility. the remainder of the patient's hospital course and herdischarge medication regimen will be dictated at the time of hertransfer by an appropriate member of the intensive care unitteam.escription document: 5-8789896 emsdictated by: jochems , solomonattending: dye , lutherdictation id 4187082d: 8/4/05t: 8/4/05[report_end]