523704694prgh6711928048028210/23/1999 12:00:00 amdischarge summarysigneddisadmission date :10/23/1999report status :signeddischarge date :11/02/1999principal diagnosis :left sided spastic hemiparesis , status post surgical correction of c-1 , c-2 dural avm .history of present illness :ms. breunlinke is a 69 year-old right handed woman , status post surgical correction of a c-1 to c-2 dural avm in january , 1998 , now presenting with a one month history of increasing left sided weakness and pain with spasticity , occasional difficulty swallowing and abdominal pain .she was originally admitted to the verg medical center in january , 1998 , because of a one year history of left sided weakness and spasticity .she was found to have intermedullary lesion at c1-2 level which on biopsy showed abnormal vasculature , hemosiderin deposit , leading in turn to the discovery of a dural arteriovenous malformation at that level which was surgically corrected .the postoperative period was complicated by transient swallowing difficulty , increasing left sided weakness and urinary retention .she was discharged to inpatient rehabilitation where she made significant progress toward recovery .as of the beginning of september , 1999 , she was able to swallow without difficulty , urinate without difficulty ( although bowel movements have been problematic ) .functionally , she was at the level of pre-gait training and able to stand and take several steps with upper body support .over the past 4-5 weeks her functional level has progressively deteriorated .she is now unable to stand and needs assistance to sit up .her left arm has developed a flexure contraction and she reports intermitttent pain in the left arm and leg which occurs both spontaneously and is also triggered by contact .she has developed some new swallowing difficulty and since her transfer to a long term inpatient care facility , she has lost ten pounds .she denies dysuria or excessive urinary frequency .over the past several weeks she has also developed severe intermittent abdominal pain , localized to the suprapubic area , left greater than right , occurring intermittently .the patient feels this is secondary to her hemorrhoids , although it does not clearly localize to the rectum .this pain often follows bowel movement but does occur spontaneously .past medical history :significant for insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , atrial fibrillation , hypothyroidism , hypertension , depression , frequent urinary tract infections , neuropathic pain syndrome and osteoporosis .medication :on admission include cozaar 75 mg q.d. , coumadin 2 mg/1 mg alternate days , synthroid 175 mcg q.d. , zoloft 50 mg q.d. , zantac 150 mg b.i.d. , diabeta 25 mg q.d. , proctofoam 1% q.i.d. , demerol 100 mg q 6 p.r.n. , oscal 2 tabs t.i.d. , multivitamins and kcl supplements , dulcolax 5 mg q.d. , senokot 2 tabs q h.s. , metamucil 1 tablespoon b.i.d. , detrol 2 mg b.i.d. , neurontin 200 mg t.i.d. , hydrodiuril 12.5 mg q.d. , valium 10 mg q 8 p.r.n. muscle spasm , insulin by sliding scale and levofloxacin 500 mg q.d. beginning october 23 , 1999 .allergies :the patient is allergic to hydralazine , codeine , ace inhibitors , nifedipine and percocet .physical examination :on admission , heart is regular rate and rhythm without murmur .lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally .abdomen is soft , with marked suprapubic tenderness and reduced bowel sounds .anal tone is reduced .rectal examination is nontender and stool is guaiac negative .neurologically , the patient is alert and oriented times three with normal speech , language and repetition .cranial nerves :pupils are 4-6 mm bilaterally , extraocular movements were full without nystagmus .eye closure and smile are symmetric .tongue is midline .facial sensation is sensation .strength :the tone is markedly increased in bot legs with left greater than right .left arm shows a flexor contracture and markedly increased tone .the right arm shows moderate increased tone .power :the left upper extremity shows reduction in motor power ranging from 2/5 in the triceps , 4/5 in the biceps , and 3-4/5 in the wrists and hand intrinsics .the right upper extremity shows generalized reduction in strength , 4/5 in all joints .in the lower extremities on the left hip flexor is 1/5 , knee flexion and extension is 3/5 and 4/5 respectively and plantar and dorsiflexion is 4/5 .the right lower extremity shows a 3/5 on hip flexion , 4/5 at knee flexion and extension and full power on dorsi and plantar flexion .reflexes :upper extremities are very brisk bilaterally and symmetrical 3+. there is positive tremor reflex on the left and absent on the right .lower extremities show patellar reflexes 3+ left , 4+ right , no cross deductor reflexes and absent ankle jerks .there is no clonus on the right but sustained clonus ( 10-12 beats ) on the left .plantar responses :toes are upgoing on the left , down going on the right .sensory :the patient has diminished vibration and propioception in the left upper and lower extremity and decreased temperature , light touch and pinprick sensation in the right upper and lower extremity consistent with a high cervical spinal sensory level .cerebellar ; the patient demonstrates an intention tremor on finger to nose with the left hand .fine motor movements are slow but accurate in the left and right hands .laboratory data :sodium 140 , potassium 3.8 , chloride 100 , bicarbonate of 30 , bun of 13 , creatinine 0.8 , serum glucose 228 .white blood count is 7,000 .hematocrit is 37.6 , platelet count is 148,000 .prothrombin time is 15.9 with an inr of 1.7 .ptt is 24 .urinalysis from october 21 , is positive for citrobacter susceptible to ciprofloxacin , gentamycin , nitrofurantoin , tetracycline and bactrim .electrocardiogram shows no p-waves .the patient is fully paced .hospital course :on admission , a ct scan of the head with and without contrast was performed , showing a missing posterior arch at c-1 and metallic clips at the craniocervical junction consistent with prior surgical intervention .no arteriovenous malformations are identified ; there is no evidence of recurrence of her former vascular malformation .no intraspinal lesions are identified .upon further review of dr. laymie fields , department of neuroradiology , review of the cervical spine on ct reveals no extrinsic compressive lesions impacting the spinal cord and no enhancing lesions of the spinal cord with contrast .angiography performed on october 31 , 1999 , showed normal vascular distribution of the head and neck with no recurrence of arteriovenous malformation .during this admission , the patient was started on baclofen 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. for spasticity .coumadin was discontinued .the patient was given aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.the patient was also given valium 5-10 mg p.o. t.i.d. for muscle spasm .she was continued on demerol 50 mg q 6-8 hours p.r.n. for left arm and leg pain .upon further review of ct and angiography results with neuroradiology and neurology service , it was decided that ct myelography was not indicated at this time .note , the patient is not a candidate for magnetic resonance imaging secondary to ferromagnetic intracardiac pacing device .disposition :the patient was discharged back to raka st , mcape garl , long term facility .we recommend daily physical therapy and occupational therapy to maximize functional capacity with optimization of pharmacological regimen for spasticity including baclofen , valium and adequate analgesia .the patient is to followup in neurology clinic , verg medical center with dr. deida k. areke and / or dr. istranmuna cord in 4-6 weeks time .dictated by :deida k. long , m.d.attending :istranmuna b. cord , m.d. vr52 ph501/3560batch :1445index no. muzhfdozk0d :11/02/99t :11/02/99 ke9