record date: 2115-10-08 educare-fargo a msiii admission notept: lindsay, anastasha	mr#: 	 5563788date of admission: 10/07/15attending: 	source: pt, pt's daughter and husband, chart.cc:  dizziness, unsteady gait, difficulty speaking per familyhpi:  74 yo f with pmh of dm, cri, breast ca, cva, who is s/p cataract surgery on 09/25/15 presents with two days of unsteady gait, weakness, mild dysarthria and hallucinations.she has a baseline amount of increasing forgetfulness, decreased appetite, and increased somnolence over the past 2 years.  she frequently forgets whether or not she has taken her medications.  she rarely leaves her home as her walking is limited by joint pain and shortness of breath.  she moves around the house infrequently and when she does it is usually from the bed to the couch per her daughter.  she has had several falls in the recent years.  she does not cook and is overall much less active than her husband who lives with her.  at her baseline, her family is concerned that she has been developing alzheimer's disease.  twelve days ago, she underwent cataract surgery on her r eye and was in her usual state of health for several days thereafter.  however, two days ago, she started to hallucinate mentioning she was seeing flies, birds and spots.  her family noted that she had difficulty forming words and also spoke incoherently at times.  she also complained of dizziness, had an increasingly unsteady gait, and did not want to eat both expressing no interest in food and saying she was worried about not being able to swallow.  she has also been falling asleep very rapidly recently, so much so that she has fallen asleep on her plate at the breakfast table.  however, she has also woken up frequently at night, often talking incoherently and once even getting up and attempting to cook breakfast at 3am.  her family also mentions that her face had recently become swollen. her family reports that her symptoms were worsened after she took her diamox, and thus they stopped giving it to her.  she was brought to the ed on 10/06/15 as her family was concerned that she had another cva.  her vs on admission were bp 120/41, hr 54, rr 18, t 96.4, o2 sat 96% on ra.  she had a negative ct, mri, cxr and labs were drawn.  in the ed she reportedly had an episode of choking while eating a pancake. currently, she reports that she is seeing many small black dots, is tired and has no dizziness, ha or pain.ros:  notable on ros is progressive dysphagia over the last year that she reports has gotten much worse of late.  she also reports occasional transient stabbing pain in the center of her sternum that often accompanies intense emotions and is not made worse by activity.   she has occasional palpitations.she reports no recent fever, wt loss, cough, hemoptosis, orthopnea, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, dysuria, sick contacts.  she reports some urinary incontinence.pmh: breast ca- diagnosed in 10/2111, she is s/p r lumpectomy and xrt for her tumor that was her-2/neu 2+.  she is followed by dr. ursula marshall at sdp.  dm- controlled by insulin.  her most recent hba1c was 6.0 in june 2115.cva- 3 yrs ago, had abrupt onset of l hemiparesis that resoloved within 48 hrs. has pfo.cri- thought to be due to dm.  htns/p cholecystectomymeds:  	home meds: per daughters listplavix 75 mg qdprotonix 40 mg qdhumalin 15 u qam, 10 u qpmzoloft 15 mg qdavapro 300mg qdlipitor 10 mg qdatenolol 50 mg qdhctz 25 mg qdprozac 20 mg qdeye meds:prednisolone 1% qidvigamox 1 drop biddiamox was d/c by family.all:  	nkdash:.  english speaking, originally from cameroon, she lives in granby with her husband.  her two daughters live in the area.  	tob. none	etoh:	none	illicits:	nonefh:  	mother had 3 cvas, died of one at age 62.  father died of liver ca at age 58.  has six sisters, one has dm, otherwise healthy.  no other cancer.   exam:  	 exam:  pt is in nad, drowsy but friendly.	vs:  t: 99.2  hr: 62  bp: 115/51  rr: 22  o2: 95 on ra	heent: nc/at, perral, nonicteric.  eomi.  mmm slightly dry, w/o exudates.  tongue is very erythematous and smooth.  slight droop noted at r side of mouth.neck:  	supple, nt, 2+ carotids w/o bruits, no lad. no thyromegaly or nodules noted.lungs:  	ctab; no crackles, no wheezescor:  	rrr; normal s1s2, no m/r/g appreciated.  jvp 7cm.abd:  	soft, non-tender, obese; nabs; no organomegaly appreciated.  pt has midline reducible hernia.g/r: 	brown stool, guaiac negextr:  	2+ dp's bilaterally.  no edema noted.neuro: 	alert and oriented x2 (person and place).  difficulty maintaining concentration, somnolent.  cn ii through xii intact, dtr's 2+ and symmetric. toes down bilaterally. f to n nl, finger tapping wnl bilat.  able to walk only with assistance.le 	hip flex	knee flex	knee ext	ankle flex	ankle ext	right	5	5	5	5	5	left	5	5	5	5	5	ue 	shoulder abd	elbow ext	elbow flex	wrist ext	finger abd	right	5	5	5	5	5	left	5	5	5	5	5	labs:  chem: na 140, k 3.3, cl 116, co2 17.8, bun 77, cr 2.0, glu 153   (previous cr  2.4, bun 82)	ca 8.7, phos 4.5, mg 1.8	glob 4.2lfts:  alt 28, ast 38, alkp 234, tbili 0.4, dbili 0.0cbc: wbc 12.1, hct 37.8, plt 263, mcv 86, rdw 14.7	diff: 78 p 18 l 3 m 1 e tox: negative for ethanol, isapropranol, methanol, salicylates, acetaminophen, theophyllineurine: u/a: negative for glucose, wbc, nitrites, ketones, blood.  ph 5.5urine chem: na 29, k 45.5, cl 33, osm 361, urea nitrogen 530, cr 0.66  (fena 0.63)studies/imaging: abd us: limited by habitus.  no evidence of intro or extrahepatic biliary dictal dilatation or retained stone.  r kidney 7.5cm, l kidney 8.3 cm.brain ct: no evidence of acute intracranial abnormality.mri brain: no evidence of acute infarct or subacute infarct.  chronic infarcts in the right posterior frontal and left parietal regions.  no evidence of vascular dissection within the neck.  mra of the neck demonstrates no hemodynamically significant stenosis.cxr: lungs are clear, no evidence for edema, consolidation, or effusions.  no evidence of pna.previous studies: 1. adenosine stress test with exercise:  2/04/14:  duration was 4 minutes, hr (resting to max) was 58% predicted.  lvef = 66%.  negative for ischemia, myocardial scans show no evidence of myocardial ischemia or infarction.rest ecg: the baseline cardiac rhythm was normal sinus rhythm. the rest electrocardiogram revealed poor r-wave progression and  nonspecific st segment and t-wave abnormalities.stress ecg:    no st segment changes were observed during this test.  arrhythmias: none.2. echo: 3/29/12:  nl dimensions.  ef 58%.  mild mitral regurg.  mild tricuspid insuff.  patent foramen ovale.a/p:  74 yo f with pmh of dm, cri, breast ca, cva, who is s/p cataract surgery on 09/25/15 presents with two days of unsteady gait, weakness, mild dysarthria and hallucinations.  she has dementia at baseline and has recently had the addition of diamox, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, to her medications.  this could have had the effect of decreasing her intravascular volume, thus leading to a prerenal state and her increased uremia, and decreased renal clearance of her renally cleared medications, thus leading to acute delirium on chronic dementia.  common causes of delirium include fen disturbances, infections, drug toxicity, metabolic disorders, low perfusion states, withdrawal from alcohol or sedatives, and idiopathic.  in addition, there is the possibility of cva, however the mri and ct were negative and the time course and symptoms are not consistent with a cva.  of concern though is that she has somewhat atypical signs of delirium such as dysarthria and ataxia.metabolic causes of delirium commonly include na, ca, mg, b12, nh3 imbalances.  her na, mg and ca are wnl.  her bun is elevated at 77, which is close to twice her baseline, and in the setting of a fragile patient, this could be enough to tip her over to delirium.  her glucose was 215 on admission, which is elevated, but only mildly so for a diabetic and not at high enough levels for ms changes to occur.infection is possible as her wbc is slightly elevated at 12.1 with 78% poly's.  however, there is no obvious source of infection and she has a normal cxr and u/a, likely ruling out a pna and uti respectively.  she has no signs of infection at the site of her eye surgery.  she could have a bacteremia secondary to other infection or due to her procedure, but without a fever, this is highly unlikely.her mental status change could be drug induced, as she is on multiple medications with the recent addition of prednisolone and vigamox eye drops as well as diamox that was recently stopped by the family.  eye drops generally do not get particularly high systemic absorption, although there is an anatomic proximity to the cns.  however, cardiovascular drugs, antidepressants, and corticosteroids are all known to induce delirium and she is on all of them, including two ssri's.  the new diamox could be enough to tip her over as it is a diuretic and by itself it can cause confusion, and by inducing more diuresis, it can cause a prerenal state, thus decreasing renal clearance of her other drugs and increasing their levels, thus leading to delirium.   indeed, her baseline creatinine is from 1.6-1.9 and was 2.4 on admission to the ed and her baseline bun is from 20-40 while it was 82 on admission to the ed.there is no present concern for drug toxicity and her tox screen was negative.  there was no seizure activity noted and her symptoms have gone on too long to be a post-ictal stateher bp on admission was 115/51 and her pulse was 62, which does not point to a low perfusion state as a cause.  she had a recent stress test that was negative.  however, it is possible that she has some orthostasis, which would fit with her recent history of falls at home.  however, this would not cause the delirium.her dementia has been developing over a few years and the possible etiologies include alzheimer's, vascular dementia, pseudodementia, thyroid abnormalities, b12 and/or folate deficiency, tertiary syphilis and chronic infarct dementia.  chronic infarct dementia is a distinct possibility with mri of brain showing chronic infarcts in the right posterior frontal and left parietal regions.  her stasis, dm and high homocysteine levels (18.8 in 2113) are risk factors with pfo for multi-infarct dementia.plan:1. delirium:  500 cc bolus of ns, followed by maintenance ivf of 1/2ns at 80cc/hr.tsh, b12, folate, rpr, esr.d/c her hctz, avapro, atenolol and recheck her lytes in the am.  call promptcare in am for consult re the d/c of diamox.seroquel 12.5 mg overnight.2. renal failure:	likely pre-renal given fena<2% and response to fluids in ed	continue gentle hydration	d/c hctz, diamox as likely precipitants of delerium and renal failure3. id: 	 cont to monitor for signs/sx of infection.  none currently present.4. gi:	elevated pancreatic enzymes: no signs or symptoms currently.  cont to follow.elevated ast and alkphos: consider ordering a ggt.dysphagia: consider a barium swallow. 5. fen: 	speech and swallow consult.  soft diet.6. proph: nexium, heparin.  pt/ot_______________________________gary aragonx23368intern addendum:pt seen and examined with gary aragon, agree with assessment and plan. in brief, 74f with dementia presenting with acute on chronic renal failure and delerium. etiology likely multifactorial, however, diamox is the only new medication and may explain both her worsening renal failure and delirium. will pursue broad differential as outlined above.ulysses xiao