record date: 2079-06-14edvisit^46103196^hart, matthew^06/14/79^napolitano, ursulahistory of present illness:  the patient is a 56-year-old malewith a history of end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis,history of coronary artery disease, diabetes, hypertension, anddvt on coumadin who comes in to the er because he has recentlymissed dialysis appointment and he feels increased abdominalgirth and shortness of breath.  he said that his father has beensick, so he has been spending a significant amount of timehelping him and because of that had a short dialysis on wednesdayand missed his friday dialysis run.  today is sunday and hegenerally gets dialysis on sunday as well.  when i asked if hehas been having chest pain, he says he has not had chest pain,but he did have a tickling in his chest that lasted seconds andwas not accompanying with any diaphoresis or radiation of thepain.  even he was ambulatory into the ed, he had no chest painwhen he was exerting himself.  he does feel slightly increasedshortness of breath and worse when he walks around, but he thinksthat because of increased fluids.  he has had no fevers orchills, no lightheadedness, no nausea, vomiting and no diarrhea.past medical history:  end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis,coronary artery disease, hyperlipidemia, osteoarthritis,diabetes, dvt on coumadin, hypertension, bladder cancer,substance abuse and gerd.past surgical history:  av fistula in 01/2078.social history:  no tobacco, rare alcohol and occasional cocaineuse.family history:  breast cancer and prostate cancer.review of systems:  as mentioned in hpi, otherwise negative.medications:  reviewed, please see the list.allergies:  include cephalosporin and simvastatin.physical examination:  temperature 97.3, heart rate 92,respiratory rate 28, blood pressure 155/84 and o2 saturation 100%on room air.  the patient is awake, alert, talking in completesentences, appears to be mildly uncomfortable.  ent:  atraumatic. neck:  normal to inspection, supple.  chest:  clear toauscultation bilaterally, no rales.  cardiovascular:  regularrate and rhythm, no murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  abdomen:  minimaldistention, soft.  no focal tenderness.  skin is intact. extremities:  no lower extremity swelling or edema, no calftenderness bilaterally.  neuropsychiatric:  oriented x3.  cranialnerves ii through xii tested and intact.  no motor or sensorydeficits.  gait is normal.emergency department course:  the patient received an ekg, whichshowed normal sinus rhythm.  no significant st or tabnormalities, no significant peaked t waves are consistent withhis previous ekg.  pa lateral chest x-ray showed no evidence ofacute cardiopulmonary infiltrates.  only labs which resultedinitially were cbc, which showed a hematocrit of 33.2, platelets423,000 and white count of 6.74.  we made contact with the renalfellow who recommended that we proceed dialysis while thedialysis unit still open and we felt that it was safe for thispatient.  his potassium was not back at the time that he left thedepartment, however, he was well appearing and had no arrhythmiason the monitor and we think that his tickling chest sensation isvery atypical for cardiac symptom, not being, so we will reassesswhen he comes back and likely check a second troponin to be surethat this is unlikely to be acute coronary syndrome.  after heleft the department, additional labs came back include inr of 2.1and a chem-7 showing a sodium of 142, a potassium of 6.4, achloride of 102, bicarbonate of 21, bun of 106, creatinine 6.18,glucose of 195, ck of 157, troponin of less than 0.04, calcium8.6, phosphorus of 5.1, and magnesium of 2.3 and promptly calledthe renal fellow who was aware of the elevated potassium and havethe patient on the monitor in the dialysis unit and agreed totreat him there acutely.  again after the dialysis, the patientwill return to the emergency department.  we will reassess ifsymptoms and see how he feels, check a second cardiac enzymes. if he feels significantly improved and he continues to have nochest pain, we feel that his symptoms are likely atypical foracute coronary syndrome and we also called that this was notacute coronary syndrome if two troponins are not elevated and hewill be able to follow up and resume his regular dialysisschedule.primary diagnosis:  volume overload.secondary diagnosis:  end-stage renal disease, on hemodialysis.disposition:  pending.please see ed note for further ed course.  this was a sharedvisit with resident physician, dr. adam mcclure.______________________________napolitano, ursula m.d.d: 06/14/79t: 06/14/79dictated by: napolitano, ursulaescription document:4-65347834 bffocus  not reviewed by attending physician