445472483 | rmc | 54049042 | | 3687073 | 4/2/2006 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 8/28/2006 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: deloge , noble m.d.primary care physician: jason kassing , npservice: whprincipal diagnosis: shortness of breath.history of present illness: ms. buetti is a 49-year-old womanwith a history of chf , copd on 3 to 4 liters at home , cad , statuspost cabg , pe with a recent admission for cellulitis complicatedby hypoxic respiratory failure requiring intubation as well asrecent admission for shortness of breath and fluid overloadcomplicated by pe while anticoagulated leading to a pulselesselectrical activity. the patient was also admitted to dhc from5/15/06 to 07 for respiratory distress again with fluidoverload requiring diuresis. the patient was discharged to theen general hospital .  on the day of admission , the patientcomplained of burning chest pain and shortness of breathdifferent from her previous cardiac chest pain. the patient alsonotes that she did not feel well.review of systems: positive for chest pain , shortness of breath ,no palpitations , no neck , jaw or back pain , no nausea orvomiting , no dizziness , positive body swelling and positive20-pound weight gain over one month.medications on admission:1. aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily.2. buspar 10 mg p.o. t.i.d.3. lasix 120 mg iv b.i.d.4. metazolone 2.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.5. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.6. prozac 20 mg p.o. daily.7. methadone 10 mg p.o. daily.8. lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d.9. senna two tablets p.o. b.i.d.10. verapamil 40 mg p.o. t.i.d.11. coumadin 33 mg at bedtime.12. multivitamin.13. folate.14. zocor 40 mg p.o. at bedtime.15. k-dur 80 mg p.o. t.i.d.16. oxycontin 10 mg p.o. at bedtime.17. seroquel 300 mg at bedtime.18. duoneb p.r.n.19. albuterol p.r.n.20. protonix 40 mg p.o. daily.21. insulin aspart sliding scale.allergies: none.family history: noncontributory.social history: the patient is homeless , but occasionally liveswith family. no tobacco history. positive etoh. positiveaddiction , methadone.physical exam on admission: vital signs stable. cardiac ,irregularly irregular. no murmurs , gallops or rubs. pulmonary ,bibasilar crackles and wheezes. abdomen , firm , distended ,nontender , no rebound or guarding. lower extremities , edematous.assessment and plan: a1 49-year-old woman with a history of chf ,copd , cad , status post cabg , status post pe with chf exacerbationcomplicated by acute renal failure , hyperkalemia and uti.plan:1. cardiovascular: ischemia. because of the patient's newonset of chf , she was ruled out for mi shortly after admission.serial enzymes and ekgs were negative for ischemia. thepatient's chest pain , however was not consistent with thepatient's usual cardiac pain. during her stay , the patient wasmaintained on an aspirin , beta-blocker and a statin , although thechest pain was gone on arrival to the ed. throughout the threemonths of the patient's stay , she did experience similar burning ,substernal chest pain. ekgs and enzymes sent during theseepisodes were always negative for ischemia. it was felt thatthis pain was likely secondary to gerd , as it often responded tomaalox , benzo , lidocaine and/or food.2. pump: the patient's primary symptoms of shortness of breathlikely due to fluid overload. the patient was diuresed with ivlasix on the medicine floor. however , on 10/22/06 , the patientexperienced somnolence , low respiratory rate and desaturations inthe setting of opioid administration for pain. the patientresponded partially to narcan and was transferred to the ccu forthree days for increased monitoring and continuation of diuresiswith a goal of negative 2 liters per day. the patient wastransitioned off methadone and on to oxycodone p.r.n. thepatient was maintained on bipap and given albuterol and duonebinhalers. she passed through this acute decompensation with nofurther complications and was transferred back to e on7/7/06 .  on the floor , the patient was transitioned to p.o.lasix. she was diuresed with a goal of 1 to 1.5 liters per day.iv lasix were administered p.r.n. shortness of breath/physicalexam consistent with fluid overload. one week prior to transfer ,the patient was transitioned back to iv lasix as her daily outputhad slowed on p.o. lasix , she was unable to make tbb goals. ontransfer , the patient shows signs of fluid overload , lowerextremity edema at bedtime bipap requirement , but relativelywhile pulmonary compensation. the patient's dry weight is about200 pounds.3. rhythm: the patient has a history of afib. she was ratecontrolled with lopressor and verapamil. she was alsoanticoagulated for both her afib and a recent pe with an inr goalof 2 to 3. rate control was obtained with the beta-blocker andcalcium channel blocker. during the stay , the patient's heartrate is often slightly faster than goal ranging in the 90s to110s. further rate control is limited by the patient's bp withsystolics often in the 90s to 100s. the patient was begun onverapamil , which was titrated up with her beta-blocker , which wastitrated down. on transfer , the patient was on verapamil 60 mgp.o. t.i.d. and atenolol 70 mg p.o. daily.4. pulmonary: the patient's pulmonary issues as describedabove. the patient also has a history of pe and copd/asthma.post micu , the patient was maintained on 4 to 5 liters oxygen bynasal cannula and during the day with bipap at nighttime. thepatient's o2 requirement remained stable until transfer , althoughrequiring albuterol nebs p.r.n. the patient was kept on coumadinfor pe with an inr goal of 2 to 3.5. renal: the patient's baseline creatinine was 0.8. onadmission , the patient had arf felt to be due to chf/volumeoverload leading to poor cardiac output , decreasing perfusion tothe kidneys. as the patient was diuresed , her renal functionimproved. this was stable throughout her stay until 10/24/06when her creatinine began to rise. it was felt that this was dueto a combination over diuresis leading to a prerenal state. nomedication changes have been made near that time except for lasixp.o. to iv. in the setting of creatinine bump , lasix andspironolactone were discontinued on 10/12/06 .  on 10/25/06 , lasix20 iv daily was restarted because of an improving creatinine , butagain held when creatinine returned as 1.5. on transfer , thepatient not on lasix secondary to creatinine bumps/arf. we didnot hydrate but monitor creatinine and continue diuresis whenable. likely prerenal secondary to intravascular depletioncaused by liver cirrhosis leading to poor intravascularalbumin/osmotic pressure. in the setting of discontinuing oflasix and poor renal function , the patient did becomehyperkalemic x2 during the week of transfer. the patient did notinitially respond to kayexalate and lactulose , as she did nothave a bowel movement likely due to opioid use. the patient didrespond to insulins and d50. on 5/30/06 , the patient again hadthe elevated potassium to 5.5 , kayexalate and lactulose x2 ,produced two bowel movements lowering her k appropriately.6. id: during the stay , the patient was treated for uti with athree-day course of levofloxacin. upon discharge , the patientwas asymptomatic.7. gi: the patient was known to have vascular ectasias in herstomach. the patient is still guaiac positive during her staywith no active bleeding. complicating this is the patient's needfor anticoagulation secondary to recent pe and afib. this isfelt to be the cause of her slowly dropping hematocrit for whichshe required occasional weekly transfusions of packed red bloodcells. the patient on a ppi b.i.d. the patient also hascirrhosis leading to poor synthetic function , poor intravascularosmotic pool contributing to fluid overload.8. heme: as above , the patient required several transfusions oftibcs , although no more than once every one to two weeks. feltdue to slow gi losses.9. endocrine: during the patient's stay , she was on a basallantus with aspart coverage. this was titrated up to achievegood glycemic control. on discharge , the patient was on lantus42 units subcu at bedtime and aspart 10 units a.c./h.s. with anaspart sliding scale. this achieved fingerstick glucoses of 120sto 160s.10. psych: the patient has a history of addiction and came tosmh on methadone. during the patient's stay , methadone wastapered and the patient transitioned to oxycodone. the patientoften complained of back pain and burning foot pain felt to beneuropathy , which was relieved by opioids. the patient oftenrefusing nsaids. on transfer , the patient was on oxycodone 5 to10 mg p.o. q. 6 h. p.r.n. pain , often taking 10 mg x4 a day. thepatient also complaints of anxiety and insomnia for which 0.5 mgof ativan achieved good resolution. at transfer , the patient wasnot on standing ativan just requiring occasional one-time ordersat bedtime. neurontin was also titrated up during the patient'sstay. finally , the patient was started on nortriptyline atbedtime for pain with good effect.physical exam on discharge: the patient was alert and orientedx3 sitting up in a cardiac chair , able to walk to the bathroomunassisted. off of o2 , although does experience mild shortnessof breath. pupils equal , round and reactive to light andaccommodation. extraocular movements intact. cardiovascular ,irregularly irregular with no murmurs , gallops or rubs.pulmonary , faint bibasilar crackles and no wheezes. abdomen ,distended and nontender. extremities , warm , well perfused withdressings on the lower calf , which are clean , dry and intact.neuro , cranial nerves ii through xii grossly intact. strength5/5 throughout with no sensory deficits.medications on discharge:1. duoneb q. 6 h. p.r.n. shortness of breath/wheezing.2. aquaphor topical daily.3. atenolol 25 mg p.o. daily.4. buspar 10 mg p.o. t.i.d.5. digoxin 0.0625 mg p.o. daily.6. duloxetine 60 mg at bedtime.7. nexium 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.8. neurontin 300 mg b.i.d. and 600 mg at bedtime.9. ibuprofen 100 mg p.o. q. 6 h. p.r.n. pain.10. insulin aspart 10 units sc , a.c. plus sliding scale.11. lantus 42 units subcu at bedtime.12. lactulose 30 ml p.o. q.i.d.13. maalox liquid maximum strength 10 to 20 ml p.o. q. 6 h.p.r.n. upset stomach.14. reglan 10 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. nausea.15. miconazole nitrate 2% powder topical b.i.d.16. nortriptyline 25 mg p.o. at bedtime.17. oxycodone 5 mg p.o. q. 6 h. p.r.n. pain.18. seroquel 3000 mg p.o. q.p.m.19. sarna topical daily.20. verapamil 60 mg p.o. t.i.d.21. coumadin 3.5 mg p.o. q.p.m.to-do plan: to accepting md.active issues:1. fluid balance. the patient is still volume overload with abaseline weight at 200 pounds , however , the patientintravascularly dry likely secondary to cirrhosis. dischargediuresis was limited by acute renal failure likely prerenal. thepatient has received packed red blood cells for a low hematocritand for colloid fluid resuscitation. the patient responds tolasix 40 mg iv or 80 mg p.o. please continue when renal functionimproves.2. electrolytes. the patient hyperkalemic twice this weeksecondary to poor urine output and acute renal failure , respondsto lactulose and k. the patient's ekg was unchanged.3. gi bleed. the patient has vascular ectasias in her gi tract ,however , she is on coumadin for afib and pe. she is on nexium 40mg p.o. b.i.d. and her stools are guaiac positive.4. heme. the patient has a slowly dropping crit , might besecondary to the slow gi bleed. transfused with a goalhematocrit greater than 25. her inr goal is 2 to 3.5. physical therapy has worked with the patient and she is ableto get out of bed to the bathroom by herself , though slowly.6. pulmonary. the patient is on bipap at night , able to securefacemask on by herself. she is on 4 to 5 liters of nasal cannuladuring the daytime , though she often takes , but removes theoxygen.7. psych/pain: the patient is on oxycodone at minimum , hasreceived 10 mg x3 a day , now at 4 to 5 per day. the patient isfull code.escription document: 7-9071226 cssten telcc: andre mccammack npham rota centercc: milan kommer m.d.us ward norfcc: jamaal billingham m.d.rilldictated by: pavlock , jakeattending: bradly davers , m.d. gn22dictation id 6953596d: 10/29/06t: 10/29/06