372869652 | omc | 82897227 | | 322146 | 5/25/1992 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 5/25/1992 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/27/1992service: general medical service 8.principal diagnosis: 1. asthma/chronic obstructive pulmonarydisease exacerbation.2. stable angina.history of the present illness: the patient is a 60 year oldfemale with a history of coronaryartery disease , asthma , and tobacco use , who presented with a oneweek history of cough , yellow sputum production , and increasingshortness of breath. the patient stated that she has needed to useher proventil inhaler with increasing frequency this past week.the night prior to admission , the patient described using herinhaler every half hour to one hour with little or no relief. thepatient also complained of "cold" symptoms of rhinitis , sorethroat , and increased cough with yellow sputum production , pluschills. there was no fever , nausea , or vomiting , no melena orhematochezia. no dysuria. plus increased urinary frequency. plusheadaches. no dizziness. good p.o. intake. the patient arrived atthe namstonsyth hospital emergency ward and was unable toperform peak flow. she had an 02 saturation on admission of 96%.after three nebulizers , the patient was able to perform a peak flowof 145. she was also given solu-medrol 80 mg iv times one in theemergency ward. past medical history: ( 1 ) asthma/chronicobstructive pulmonary disease. the patient experiencesapproximately one flare per year. she has never been intubated.she was hospitalized once for asthma in 11/9 and kept approximatelyone week. ( 2 ) stable angina. the patient complains of a historyof angina times three years , presented with substernal burning. theangina has been stable recently with approximately one episodeevery two weeks , always relieved with one sublingual nitroglycerin.the angina would also occur when ascending approximately twoflights of stairs. the patient has a history of positive ett withthallium in 8/30 , but a cardiac catheterization in 6/8 showedclean coronaries. the patient also complains of three pilloworthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. cardiac risk factors:hypertension and tobacco. no cholesterol , diabetes , or myocardialinfarction history. questionable family history. ( 3 ) enlargedkidney. social history: tobacco: one pack every three days times43 years. no alcohol. retired. family history: mother died ofasthma at a young age. no cardiac history. allergies: there areno known drug allergies. medications on admission: verapamil sr240 mg q-day , isordil 40 mg p.o. t.i.d. , and proventil two puffsb.i.d. , atrovent two puffs b.i.d. , enteric coated aspirin one p.o.q-day , valium p.r.n. , and lasix 20 mg p.o. q-day p.r.n.physical examination: this is a 60 year old female in no acutedistress. vital signs reveal a temperatureof 98.4 , blood pressure 140/90 , heart rate 82 and regular ,respiratory rate of 20 , 02 saturation of 96% on room air. heent:perrla , eomi , oropharynx clear , naries clear. right tympanicmembrane with fluid , without erythema. neck: no jugular venousdistension , no bruits , no lad. lungs: poor air movement withexpiratory wheezes throughout , and no rales. cor: regular rateand rhythm , plus s4. back: no vertebral cva tenderness. theabdomen was soft , nontender , plus bowel sounds. pulses: radial ,carotid , femoral , and dp pulses were 2+ bilaterally. lowerextremities: 1+ pitting edema bilateral. neurological exam wasnonfocal. rectal: no masses , guaiac negative.laboratory data: the chest x-ray showed no infiltrates , plusbronchial wall thickening consistent withbronchitis ekg showed normal sinus rhythm at 81 , pr interval0.16 , qrs 0.0 , 72 , at 30 degrees. inverted t-waves in v1 , v4-v6 ,biphasic t-waves in v3 , and no significant change since 4/10 onadmission , there were normal electrolytes. wbc: 5.4 thousand ,hematocrit 42 , and platelets 254 , 000.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the stepdown unit on9-b and given solu-medrol 80 mg iv q8 hours andalbuterol nebulizer q1 hour treatments. she was also given bactrimds one p.o. b.i.d. for presumed bronchitis. the patient did wellover the hospital course with increasing peak flow to over 200 ondischarge. her lung exam was also much improved with better airmovement on discharge. immediately after admission , the patientcomplained of one episode of burning , substernal chest relievedwith one sublingual nitroglycerin. she did have ekg changes withnew upright t-waves throughout the precordium and in i , differentfrom admission. she was ruled out for a myocardial infarction andhad flat ck's. her upright t-waves in i and v3-v6 continuedthroughout the hospital course. this was thought to be secondaryto labile q-waves as noted in the past. the patient was dischargedon four days of bactrim and a prednisone taper.disposition: condition on discharge: stable. medications ondischarge: atrovent inhaler two puffs q.i.d. ,clinoril 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , enteric coated aspirin one p.o.q-day , bactrim ds one p.o. b.i.d. times four days , verapamil sr 240mg p.o. q.a.m. and 180 mg p.o. q.p.m. , azmacort inhaler two puffsb.i.d. , isordil 40 mg p.o. t.i.d. , albuterol inhaler two puffsq.i.d. , prednisone 60 mg p.o. q-day wean to off in two weeks ,valium 5 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. , and colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d.p.r.n. followup care: with dr. minh moudry to be arranged by thepatient within two weeks of discharge. diet: low salt , lowcholesterol. activity: as tolerated.dictated by: son a. pietrowicz , m.d. yf38attending: trent g. csizmadia , m.d. tk13vk953/8511batch: 1302 index no. disokd7xw8 d: 6/11/92t: 8/19/92