record #521522077972340 | sh | 17537710 | | 3662287 | 0/16/2006 12:00:00 am | urosepsis , atrial fibrillation | unsigned | dis | admission date: 9/3/2006 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 9/10/2006attending: prowell , rodrigo tyler m.d.service: gms ank thay nage intern.chief complaint: seizure and urosepsis.history of present illness: this 75-year-old female with historyof left mca stroke with residual right-sided weakness , vasculardementia , insulin-dependent diabetes , cad with recent admissionfor proteus uti , admitted with mental status changes , possibletonic-clonic seizure , new atrial fibrillation with rvr , andhypotension in setting of presumed urosepsis. the patientpresented from her nursing home on responses status post witnessseizure activity and new onset atrial fibrillation with rvr. thepatient recently admitted on 1/2 with proteus uti requiringintubation , discharged to rehabilitation and extensive courses ofcefpodoxime. as per the ems , the patient had tonic-clonicseizure activity with tachycardiac to 180s and desaturated to70%. notable studies at that time , chest x-ray without obviousinfiltrate , head ct without acute changes or left mca territoryinfarct was noted. urinalysis is notable for grossly infectedurine. the patient was admitted to the micu where the patientwas aggressively resuscitated with normalization of bloodpressure. the patient's urine culture grew enterococcus and shewas treated with ceftazidime and vancomycin given her history ofmrsa and proteus uti. the patient was weight controlled with ivlopressor and transferred to gms service.past medical history: as follows , left mca stroke , whichresulted in visible right-sided weakness and dysarthria ,insulin-dependent diabetes , neuropathy , nephropathy , cad. themibi was on done in 6/28 , which showed a reversible anteroapicaldefect , hypertension , peripheral vascular disease , status postright fifth toe amputation , status post left fem bypass , alsovascular dementia , chronic kidney disease with creatinines of1.8-2 , gerd , cataracts , depression , venous insufficiency withright heel ulcer , left heel ulcer with underlying osteomyelitis ,angina , status post right mastectomy for distant breast cancer ,status post cholecystectomy , tah , open distal right tibialfracture in 7/5 . physical examination: afebrile , pulse 83 , blood pressure isranging from 110-150/70-80 , o2 sat 100% on room air. she hasregular rate and rhythm in sinus. extremity exam is notable for2+ edema bilaterally right greater than left , upper arm erythemanear her picc site , which is not new. heel dressings clean , dry ,and intact. neuro exam was notable for baseline righthemiparesis and aphasia. pupils of left are greater than right.left is surgical pupils and both reactive. at baseline , she hasrepetitive speech and also had a history of screaming when wakeat night that can be sued by direction with people.hospital course by problems:1. id: admitted with urosepsis , afebrile , leukocytosisresolving , and urine culture from admit not growingenterococcus-vre on iv linezolid for better absorption.instruction: finished 14-day course of linezolid today day six.renal ultrasound was negative for hydro , patient incontinent ,passing urine , has been afebrile with normal white blood cellcount and blood pressure.2. cv: ischemia: history of cad , enzymes negative x3 here.had st depressions on ekg initially. ekg is normal sincecontinue aspirin , statin beta-blocker , pump. no known history ofchf , ef 55% , total body fluid overloaded. we have restartedlasix 20 daily , blood pressures had been elevated. the patientis treated right now with lopressor , catapres patch versuscurrently 12.5 mg t.i.d. instruction: please titrate asnecessary to home dose of toprol xl 50 daily. instruction:continue clonidine patch , add imdur as necessary. rate: atrialfibrillation with rvr visit admit likely secondary to sepsis hasbeen in normal sinus. no coumadin now. rate controlled with ivlopressor and on aspirin 81. if the patient is in paroxysmalatrial fibrillation can consider increasing to aspirin 325 mglater in a week.3. neuro: possible seizures secondary to urosepsis. eegnegative for epileptic form activity , but the patient iscurrently on dilantin for goal equal to 10 , last level was 8.7corrected for albumin is 13.5 , currently on dilantin 100 mgt.i.d. instructions: we checked dilantin level in one week -history of cva , left mca stroke , has right-sided weakness notnew. question of new stroke clinically on 7/5 was seen byneurology , but they think most likely just haldol effect and typeof old left mca stroke. the patient with improved exam in 10/22 ,so no mri indicated in the future. the patient does require mri ,must get consent from family , discussed with her orthopedist andradiology. the pain is in her right foot and contact dr. julian e charbonnel from ortho at blantonain hospital , 449-426-2408.mental status remains poor and per the patient's husband thepatient is intermittently conversant at home and occasionallyscreams at rehab. give haldol if the patient inconsolable. homeregimen was remeron , prozac , and seroquel. we have held theremeron to do its interaction with clonidine and it is decreasedafter she had the clonidine for hypertension and also had heldprozac which has caused serotonin syndrome with the linezolid onboard. instructions: consider restarting these antidepressantsonce off linezolid. instructions: the patient takes meds. ifhusband around so may want at time p.o. meds around this.4. heme: the patient has been pf4 positive , but platelets arenormal.5. pulm: sating well on room air. normal chest x-ray.6. endo: history of insulin-dependent diabetes , on insulin andglipizide on rehab and now on insulin sliding scale. hasrecently started p.o. feeding. currently on insulin slidingscales for transfer. instructions: conversion to glipizide 40nightly as at home with increasing p.o. intake.7. fen: the patient passed speech and swallow. currently onprune , honey , and liquids therefore now.8. prophylaxis: on nexium , off lovenox for transfer. thepatient is full code.home medications: aspirin 81 mg daily , toprol xl 50 mg daily ,multivitamins , artificial tears , mirtazapine 10 mg nightly ,glipizide 40 mg nightly , xalatan one drop in each eye nightly ,seroquel 50 mg q.p.m. , 20 mg q.a.m. , prilosec 20 ,hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg , lasix 20 , catapres patch everythursday , combivent t.i.d. , imdur 90 daily , lipitor 40 mgnightly , prozac 20 mg nightly , dulcolax nightly , tylenol b.i.d. ,colace 100 mg b.i.d. , sena , mycolog cream to groin b.i.d. p.r.n. ,mylanta one to two nightly p.r.n. , lorazepam 0.5 q.4 h. p.r.n.allergies: ace inhibitors , she gets hyperkalemia.discharge medications: as follows , tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.6 h.p.r.n. for pain , aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , dilantin 15 ml p.o.q.4 h. upset stomach , artificial tears one drop in each eye atnight , aspart sliding scale subcutaneous before and after meals ,lipitor 40 mg p.o. daily , dulcolax 5 mg p.o. bedtime p.r.n.constipation , catapres patch 0.1 mg per day topically changedevery week , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , nexium 20 mg b.i.d. , lasix20 mg daily , combivent two puffs inhaled q.i.d. , lactulose 30 mlp.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. constipation , xalatan one drop in each eyebedtime , nasalide 600 mg iv q.12 h. , ativan 0.5 mg p.o. q.i.d.p.r.n. anxiety , maalox one to two tablets p.o. q.6 h. p.r.n.upset stomach , milk of magnesia 30 ml p.o. daily p.r.n.constipation , lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. hold if heart rateless than 60 , blood pressure less than 100 , mycolog topicalapplied to groin b.i.d. , dilantin 300 mg p.o. daily , seroquel 50mg p.o. q.p.m. , sena liquid one teaspoon p.o. bedtime ,multivitamin 5 ml p.o. daily.holding the following medications from home are imdur , remeron ,and prozac.in addition , the following medications should be titratedfollowing transfer as the patient tolerates. titrate fromlopressor 12.5 mg t.i.d. to toprol xl 50 mg daily as the patienttolerates. change over the patient from insulin sliding scale toglipizide 40 mg nightly. restart hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg dailyand if needed we start imdur. the patient has been held on theprozac again for possible serotonin syndrome and interactionsince the patient is on linezolid 600 mg iv q.12 h. also addmirtazapine as necessary , but beware of interaction withclonidine.the patient is full code.escription document: 2-6434629 cssten teldictated by: dulkis , donaldattending: dosreis , winston jcdictation id 5994456d: 0/12/06t: 2/2/06[report_end]