record #529379191207305 | eg | 70241196 | | 0210178 | 0/15/2002 12:00:00 am | cellulitis | signed | dis | admission date: 0/15/2002 report status: signeddischarge date: 0/18/2002service: general medical service au alldown memorial . principal problem: vascular insufficiency.other diagnoses: diabetes mellitus , known vascular disease ,incontinence , recurrent utis , hypertension.history of present illness: this is an 89-year-old woman withinsulin dependent diabetes , coronaryartery disease , hypertension , peripheral vascular disease , andejection fraction of 28% who had a left fem-peroneal bypass in thepast presented with on-going left toe pain admitted for left toevascular insufficiency and cellulitis refractory to treatment fortwo months. the patient reported having her podiatrist clip hernails about two months ago which is when her pain in her footstarted. she denies any fever , chills , cough , shortness of breath ,nausea , or vomiting. at home she was able to ambulate , but hadsignificant pain localizing to her left foot and toe. she wasrecently admitted here on august for the samecomplaint treated with iv levofloxacin and clindamycin for fivedays and then went home on ten days of dicloxacillin , then keflex.she comes back on the may with the same painand infection in her left foot. on admission she was afebrile withmild tachycardia and stable blood pressure. exam was notable for asoft systolic ejection murmur at the base , non-palpable pulses inher left lower extremity. left foot was cool. there was swellingover the dorsum of her left foot to the ankle. there was asuperficial ulcer along the medial aspect of the nail bed withoutpurulence. she had normal white blood cell count and negativeblood cultures taken here.past medical history: status post cva , status post carotidendarterectomy , status post fem-peronealbypass in 1997 , diabetes , hypertension , inflammatory bowel disease ,congestive heart failure with an ef of 28 to 30% , depression ,recurrent utis , coronary artery disease , status post mi , non-q wavemi , cataracts , stress incontinence.medications on admission: include lactulose , zocor , metamucil ,paxil , cozaar , neurontin , metformin ,lantus.allergies: allergies to sulfa , mavik , and verapamil.family history: noncontributory.social history: she lives with her family.review of systems: as per the history of the present illness.admission physical examination: vital signs: temperature 98.3 ,heart rate 100 , blood pressure184/100 , breathing 20 and satting 97% on room air. general: noacute distress , obese. heent: clear. no adenopathy. oropharynxclear. neck: jugular venous distention less than eightcentimeters. cardiovascular: regular rate and rhythm. nomurmurs , rubs , or gallops. pulmonary: clear to auscultationbilaterally. abdomen: soft , non-tender , non-distended. noorganomegaly. obese. extremities: left foot swollen to the ankleover the dorsum , erythema. superficial ulceration along thelateral first toenail bed without purulence. left foot was cool.non-palpable pulses in lower extremity. neurologic: she wasintact. able to ambulate with some difficulty and pain.hospital course: the patient was admitted for recurrent vascularinsufficiency with superimposed cellulitis likelydue to her poor lower extremity perfusion from her peripheralvascular disease. an mri was obtained which was concerning forearly osteomyelitis and there was concern that her bypass graft inher left leg was not patent. she had angiography of the left legvessels and proceeded to get stenting of the left common iliac andexternal iliac vessels without complication on march .  alsoduring her hospitalization she had elevated lfts which wereattributed to a three gram dose of unasyn that she received in theemergency room. the unasyn was changed to iv clindamycin and levo ,and a right upper quadrant ultrasound showed a calcifiedgallbladder wall and no obstruction , and her lfts then began tonormalize. her cardiac status remained stable throughout heradmission and she is to be treated with plavix 75 mg for 30 daysafter the stenting of her iliac vessels. a picc line was placed onthe day of discharge for on-going iv antibioticsplan: the plan is as follows: 1. plavix times 30 days , 75milligrams a day. 2. iv clindamycin and p.o. levofloxacinfor another ten days , and then switch to p.o. flagyl andlevofloxacin for an additional four weeks. 3. she is to follow-upwith her pcp , dr. renato hypolite , and vascular surgery clinic asplanned. 4. please continue checking fingerstick blood sugarsq.a.c. and h.s.discharge condition: stable.discharge medications: include the following: aspirin , bacitracin ,dulcolax , clindamycin 600 mg iv q. eighthours for another ten days , colace enema or laxative choice per dayfor constipation , heparin 5000 units subcu b.i.d. , regular insulinsliding scale , lactulose 30 milliliters p.o. b.i.d. hold for loosestool , reglan ten milligrams p.o. q. six for nausea or vomiting ,oxycodone five to ten milligrams p.o. q. four to six forbreakthrough pain , fleets phospho-soda 45 liters p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n.for constipation , senna tablets two tabs p.o. b.i.d. , neurontin 100milligrams p.o. b.i.d. , metformin 500 milligrams p.o. b.i.d. ,oxycontin ten milligrams p.o. q. 12 hours , cozaar 50 milligramsp.o. q.d. hold for a systolic blood pressure less than 95 ,levofloxacin 250 milligrams p.o. q.d. for the next ten days andthen an additional four weeks after that as described above , plavix75 milligrams p.o. q.d. times 30 days , and adalat ( nifedipineextended release ) 60 milligrams p.o. q.d. hold for systolic bloodpressure less than 95 , lantus 14 units subcu q.a.m.additional plan: the patient should have her lft's rechecked inthe next week to ensure that they are normalizing.dictated by: hilton bird , oe14attending: rosendo fargnoli , m.d. xz56  wk192/175433batch: 75653 index no. b8cf4a7apf d: 8/24/02t: 8/24/02cc: 1. cristobal s. harwin , m.d. zd45[report_end]