023288774 | aro | 27876670 | | 4584645 | 8/17/2003 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 8/15/2003 report status: signeddischarge date:principal discharge diagnosis: panniculitis.associated discharge diagnoses: 1. acute renal failure.2. depression/personalitydisorder.3. diabetes.4. protein calorie malnutrition.history of present illness: this is a 36-year-old woman with ahistory of morbid obesity and diabetesmellitus with recently diagnosed abdominal wall cellulitis statuspost a three week stay at tondenpe wacla tusfire hospital . the patient leftama from tal/whit community hospital the day of current admission andafter spending several hours at home called the ambulance after sheslipped and fell out of her chair and was unable to get up. shedenies loss of consciousness , she was found on the floor lying onher back. she denies fever or chills. she does have abdominalpain , denies nausea or vomiting , diarrhea , increased urinaryfrequency or dysuria.past medical history: her past medical history is significant forobesity and diabetes.medications on admission include: insulin , lisinopril , cephalexin ,lipitor , cimetidine , paxil ,metformin.allergies: the patient has no known drug allergies.social history: no tobacco or alcohol use.physical examination on admission: temperature of 96.2 , bloodpressure of 121/64 , pulse of124 , respirations 18 , saturation of 97 percent on room air. ingeneral , she is obese , tachypneic , and uncooperative. heent ,supple neck , no jaundice , moist oral mucosa. cv , tachycardicwithout murmur. lungs , cta anteriorly. abdomen , lower abdominalwall with extensive areas of erythema and induration with an openwound 5 x 7 cm , no pus or drainage , tender to palpation.extremities , bilateral swelling , warmth , and erythema withtenderness. neurologic , uncooperative for exam , grossly nonfocal.laboratory data: laboratories on admission are significant for awhite count of 10.57 , hematocrit of 32.7 ,platelets of 437. chem-7 showed a sodium of 135 , potassium of 4.3 ,chloride of 108 , co2 of 15 , bun of 6 , creatinine of 1.2 , glucose of92 , calcium is 7.5. esr 75 , inr 1.5 , pt 17.3 , ptt 36.1. ua showed3 to 5 white blood cells , 2 to 3 red blood cells , positiveleukocyte esterase , positive nitrates. ekg showed sinustachycardia with a q-wave in avf and questionable q in v4 throughv5 , left axis deviation , a flat t-wave in v2 through v6 , invertedt-wave in 3 , all unchanged from previous. chest x-ray showed noinfiltrates. an abdominal ct done at sh on 1/10 showed strandingand fluid and gas along the anterior aspect of the abdominal wallwithout evidence of abscess. an echo done at gah showed normalleft ventricular function without valvular disease , with an ef of64 percent. a surgical pathology report at b showed cellulitiswith ulceration and fat necrosis. blood cultures at mhc were neverpositive. lower extremity doppler on admission negative for clotsabove the knee. ct done at lh was negative for pe.hospital course by systems: id: the patient was assessed bygeneral surgery in the emergency roomand plastic surgery followed the patient while in-house. it wasthought that the patient did not require any further surgicaldebridement , she is status post two surgical debridements at nch .it was recommended that she undergo wet-to-dry dressing changes.originally upon admission to the irvra hospital she was given nafcillin ,however , after coming up to the floor she was changed to a regimenof vancomycin , cefotan and flagyl as per id recommendation at hom ,this is the regimen the patient was receiving at omh . her bloodcultures , of note , were never positive. it was recommended by theid service that the patient does need an abdominal ct to rule outan abscess given the stranding seen on prior ct at sh , however ,the patient was too large for the ct table at the oale hospital , as wellas for an mri table , it will have to be assessed as to whether thepatient may be transferred to another facility for abdominalimaging to rule out abscess , until that time wet-to-dry dressingswill continue to the wound and antibiotics will be continued iv.endocrine: the patient was given a regimen of nph 14 units b.i.d.and an insulin sliding scale with excellent control of blood sugar.fen: the patient has severe protein calorie malnutrition , and anutrition consult was obtained and extensive conversations werecarried out concerning whether or not to institute tpn or tubefeeds in this patient. the patient originally refused tube feedsand it was explained to her the risks and benefits of tpn , and apicc was placed to institute tpn. however , on 6/6 the patientattempted to leave ama and was declared incompetent to make medicaldecisions , so while tpn was instituted to help support the patientnutritionally , at some point a feeding tube including a permanentpeg will have to be reconsidered , as this is the best way to feedthe patient. her admission albumin was 1.5 , indicative of severeprotein calorie malnutrition , and her severe malnutrition was alsothought to be the contributing , if not causative , factor to thepatient's renal failure.renal: the patient's admission creatinine was 1.2 with an increaseto 1.9 overnight , and continued to rise to a level of 3 throughouther admission. a renal consult was obtained. fena was less than 1percent , so renal felt that the patient's acute renal failure wasmost likely prerenal secondary to the patient's severe proteincalorie malnutrition at third spacing , so it was thought that thepatient would benefit from transfusions of blood products and/oralbumin to help pull fluid intravascularly. there was some thoughtthat perhaps her renal failure could have been due ain fromnafcillin , however , her urine eos were negative. the patient didhave polyuria from yeast but this was thought to be colonizationand not actual infection. the patient did continue to receive ivfluids throughout this hospitalization , and her electrolytes weremonitored and repleted as necessary.gi: the patient did have some diarrhea , a c. diff was sent and iscurrently negative.psychiatry: there were severe behavior problems with the patientat amc resulting in the necessity of maintain an elaborate carecontract with the patient that details each behavior that wasexpected of the patient. however , throughout her stay at gh ,though she was thought to have a severely regressed personalitydisorder , she was deemed competent to make medical decisions andthus left ama from that facility. upon arrival to wrangwake medical center , she did express suicidal ideations to her niece , so apsychiatric consult was obtained. however , psychiatry felt likeher suicidal ideation was most likely indicative of a borderlinetype personality disorder , so it was not thought that she wasactively suicidal and did not require a one to one sitter.however , she did continue to have manipulative behavior and severemedical noncompliance , refusing all care including basic hygieniccare as well as wound dressings , medications , and interviews withcare providers and other medically necessary interventions. thepatient refused multiple evaluations by psychiatry to evaluate forcompetence as the patient often did not want to listen whenattempts to explain to her her medical problems and theconsequences concerning medical decisions were attempted. finallyon october , the patient did try to leave ama during the night ,and on the morning of march another psychiatric evaluation wasperformed and the patient was declared incompetent by psychiatry ,and the decision was made to proceed with medically necessary caredespite the patient's unwillingness to comply , and we have begunthe pursuit of her guardianship for this patient. the patient'ssister has agreed to pursue the role as her guardian. until thattime , the patient will be restrained physically or chemically asnecessary for medically necessary intervention. psychiatry iscontinuing to follow.current medications include: flagyl 500 mg iv q.8. , cefotan 1 g ivq.24. , vancomycin dose by levels ,heparin 5000 units subcu t.i.d. , nph insulin 14 units subcu b.i.d. ,regular insulin sliding scale , zofran 8 mg iv q.8h. p.r.n. nausea ,paxil 10 mg p.o. q.d. , miconazole powder topically b.i.d. , nexium40 mg p.o. q.d. , serax 15 to 30 mg p.r.n. insomnia , ambien 5 mgp.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia , and total parenteral nutrition.entered by: coy joaquin gandy , m.d. kb96attending: leonel teem , m.d. fu89pz027/746743batch: 13052 index no. f2mhld57j5 d: 10/5/03t: 10/5/03