073187962 | c | 08150399 | | 4062856 | 9/10/2006 12:00:00 am | osteomyelitis lt. foot | signed | dis | admission date: 5/5/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 4/11/2006attending: mohorovich , barry mddate of admission: 4/5/06date of discharge: 2/29/06history of present illness:this patient is a 72-year-old female with a left plantar fifthmetatarsal ulcer since 3/14 the patient previously had anulcer in the same area , which healed successfully. the patienthad recurrence of her neuropathic ulcer and it has worsened anddeepened with progression to osteomyelitis involving themetatarsal phalangeal joint. the patient's wound healing hasbeen confounded by longstanding lower extremity edema and aswell as congestive heart failure and venous stasis. theulcer has been previously treated with debridement , however , in5/23 , it became infected and the patient developed left lowerextremity cellulitis , which progressed to the knee. the patientwas treated with antibiotics and subsequently developed profusediarrhea and was found to have a clostridium difficile infection.the patient was treated with oral flagyl and vancomycin. shepresents on admission with continued loose stool. the patienthad previously undergone a three-phase bone scan , which waspositive for osteomyelitis and then confirmed by a gallium scan.the patient has had decreased sensation from bilateral mid tibiaextending distally and denies pain. the patient is admitted froma rehabilitation facility where she undergoes physical therapy.at baseline , the patient has poor ambulation and is wheelchairbound. the patient's cardiovascular risk factors include herdiabetes , venous stasis , coronary artery disease , hypertension ,elevated cholesterol , and neuropathy.past medical history:1. lower extremity edema and venous stasis.2. right knee gout.3. ischemic cardiomyopathy , requiring aicd.4. status post removal of thyroid tumor.5. status post triple bypass coronary artery bypass graftsurgery.6. status post multiple myocardial infarctions.7. status post placement of coronary stents.medications on admission:atorvastatin 20 mg p.o. at night , gabapentin 300 mg p.o. atbedtime , allopurinol 150 mg p.o. daily , torsemide 50 mg p.o.b.i.d. , lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , fentanyl patch 50 mcg anhour q.72 h. , potassium chloride 80 meq daily , omeprazole 20 mgdaily , colace 100 mg b.i.d. , vancomycin 250 mg orally three timesa day , flagyl 500 mg three times a day , nph insulin 25 units inthe morning , and oxycodone 5 mg q.4 h. p.r.n. pain.allergies:sulfa causes angioedema.operations and procedures:on 5/5/2006 , the patient underwent debridement of her left footand amputation of the left fifth metatarsal phalangeal joint. on10/19/2006 , the patient underwent closure of her wound.other treatments and procedures:ct angiogram:1. diffuse atherosclerotic disease with multiple focal areas ofmild-to-moderate stenosis seen in the origin of the sma ,bilateral renal arteries , common and superficial femoral arteriesand popliteal arteries.2. occlusion of the mid third of the posterior tibial arterywith distal reformation on the right side.3. three-vessel run off in the left leg.hospital course:the patient was admitted to the vascular surgery service on5/5/2006 after undergoing her amputation. no concerningintraoperative events occurred; please see dictated operativenote for details. she was transferred to the floor from the pacuin stable condition. the patient had adequate pain control andwas tolerating a regular diet by postoperative day #0. she wasplaced on a fluid restriction in light of her congestive heartfailure. the patient's wound was clean with no evidence ofhematoma collection. she underwent wet-to-dry dressing changest.i.d. the patient underwent a ct angiogram to evaluate herlower extremity vasculature; please see the results noted abovein the procedure section. in summary , the patient's three-vesselrun off to the left lower extremity indicated that she would notlikely need a bypass for wound healing at this time. inaddition , because the patient's wound was clean , dr. fregeau deemedthat it is appropriate to proceed the closure of the wound. as aresult , on 10/19/2006 , the patient returned to the operating roomand underwent closure of her wound; please see dr. visage 'sdictated operative note for details of this procedure. followingboth of the patient's procedures , her pain was well controlledwith oral pain medications. the patient's cardiovascular statusremained stable postoperatively. she did continue on herhome/rehabilitation facility medication regimen for hercardiovascular issues. the patient remained stable from arespiratory standpoint. the patient did continue to have loosebowel movements during her hospital stay. she continued on heradmission regimen for clostridium difficile , which consisted oforal flagyl and oral vancomycin. there were multiple attempts tosave a stool specimen; either the patient did not save the stoolat times or it was mixed with copious amounts of urine. as aresult , a clostridium difficile test is pending at the time ofdischarge and will need to be followed up for test of cure whileat rehabilitation. the patient's hemodynamic status wasmonitored closely as well as her fluid status. the patient wasplaced on a 1500 ml fluid restriction due to her chf. thepatient did have a slight rise in her creatinine from 1.4 to 1.8 ,at the time of discharge , the patient's creatinine was trendingback down to 1.4. the patient's electrolytes were monitored andrepeated as necessary during her hospital stay. the patientreceived subcutaneous heparin for dvt prophylaxis while as aninpatient. the patient's cultures from the operating room werepositive for mrsa , and as a result , she continued on ivvancomycin. the patient is to continue her iv vancomycin regimenthrough follow up with dr. gittins in clinic. the patient was seenby the diabetes management service for evaluation of her diabetesas her blood sugars were elevated on her admission regimen. as aresult , the diabetes management service recommended a regimenconsisting of 25 units of nph in the morning , 8 units of nph atbedtime , a standing novolog regimen of 4 units with meals inaddition a novolog sliding scale with meals and at bedtime. theremainder of the patient's hospital course was relativelyunremarkable and she is to be discharged in stable condition backto rehabilitation with adequate pain control. the patient was given explicitinstructions to follow up in clinic with dr. kegerries in one to two weeks.discharge medications:1. tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.6 h. p.r.n. pain.2. aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily.3. allopurinol 100 mg p.o. daily.4. atorvastatin 20 mg p.o. at bedtime.5. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.6. fentanyl patch 50 mcg an hour q.72 h.7. gabapentin 300 mg p.o. at bedtime.8. novolog sliding a.c. and at bedtime.9. novolog 4 units a.c.10. nph insulin 25 units every morning.11. nph insulin 8 units at bedtime.12. potassium chloride immediate release 40 meq by mouth twice aday.13. lopressor 12.5 mg twice a day.14. flagyl 500 mg p.o. three times a day.15. omeprazole 20 mg p.o. daily.16. oxycodone 5-10 mg p.o. q.4 h. p.r.n. pain.17. torsemide 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.18. triamcinolone 0.1% topical daily applied bilaterally to theshin.19. vancomycin 1 g iv q.24 h. , the patient is to continue thismedication through follow up with dr. foesch , at which time , hewill determine the length of treatment.20. vancomycin 250 mg p.o. q.6 h.pending results:at the time of dictation , the patient has a stool specimen on theway to the microbiology lab , which will need to be followed upfor test of cure.physician follow-up plans:the patient is to follow up with dr. nelms in approximately oneto two weeks for evaluation of her wound and length of treatmentwith intravenous vancomycin.disposition:the patient is discharged to rehabilitation.escription document: 6-5913167 emssten teldictated by: woelfl , burlattending: gerkin , clairdictation id 9259389d: 2/29/06t: 2/29/06