record #561518610002579 | cmc | 73726819 | | 697749 | 3/26/1999 12:00:00 am | coronary artery disease | signed | dis | admission date: 3/26/1999 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/5/1999history of present illness: the patient is a 66 year-old male withknown coronary artery disease statuspost myocardial infarction who presented with new onset of dyspneaon exertion. the cardiac catheterization revealed three vesseldisease and the patient presented for coronary artery bypassgrafting.past medical history: significant for hypertension , diabetesmellitus , gastroesophageal reflux disease ,peripheral vascular disease , and peripheral neuropathy. nostrictures and no bleeding.medications on admission: lasix 40 mg b.i.d. , norvasc 10 mg qday , imdur 30 mg q day , aldactone 25 mgq day , atenolol 75 mg q day , ranitidine 150 mg b.i.d. , zocor 40 mgq day , insulin 26 units of nph in the morning , 14 of regularinsulin in the morning , 26 of nph in the evening and 14 of regularin the evening.tests/studies: cardiac catheterization showed left anteriordescending coronary artery with 100 percentstenosis , left circumflex at the origin with 50 percent stenosis ,obtuse marginal 100 percent , obtuse marginal two 90 percent , obtusemarginal three diffuse disease , right coronary artery proximal30-40 percent , mid 90 percent , ramus 100 percent. ejection fractionon echocardiogram was 35 percent , severe apical hypokinesis andlateral hypokinesis , inferior diskinesis , trace mitralregurgitation , mild tricuspid regurgitation. electrocardiogramshowed normal sinus rhythm with anterior infarct. bun andcreatinine was 1.9 and 1.6.physical exam: the patient was awake , alert and oriented timesthree. good oral hygiene. no carotid bruits.heart: regular rate and rhythm. no murmurs , rubs or gallops.chest: clear to auscultation to the bases. abdomen: soft ,nontender and nondistended , normal active bowel sounds.dopplerable dorsalis pedis pulses.hospital course: the patient was informed consented of all therisks and benefits of the procedure and thepatient was adequate prepared preoperative before the actualsurgery. for more details of the actual surgery please refer todr. burress ' operative note on 1/28/99 . immediately postoperativelythe patient was taken to the cardiac surgery intensive care unitwhere he was admitted without difficulty. the patient woke upappropriately and was extubated. the patient had cardiac index of2.3 , was kept on neoral and epinephrine for pressor support. thepatient was advancing his diet as tolerated after extubation andwas making adequate urine output. the patient was tolerating weanfrom epinephrine on postoperative day number one. the patientreceived consultation from the electrophysiology service , as itappeared that the patient had a transient block at the level of theav-node. the patient continued to be followed in the cardiacsurgery intensive care unit and an echocardiogram was done thatshowed a 30 percent ejection fraction and global hypokinesis. thepatient had a nonfocal neurological exam. the patient was weaningdown on dopamine and neoral however still continued to need thisdrip. the patient also had a lasix drip of 10 per hour. thepatient was breathing well on the face mask. the patient was keptnpo at this time as he was not able to tolerate p.o. intake withoutnausea. the patient continued to have an elevated creatinine of1.7 , down from 1.9 earlier and a hematocrit of 32.8 with no signsof bleeding. the patient continue to have ancef for chest tubecoverage.the patient was again seen by the electrophysiology service forpossible change in his rhythm. the rhythm was wenckebach and thepatient was evaluated for a possible pacemaker. on postoperativeday number three the patient was hemodynamically stable weaning ofof neoral but still on dopamine and still requiring a lasix drip at10 per hour. the patient was still in wenckebach and the patientcontinued to breathe well however remained at 70%. the patientremained npo as his respiratory needs took precidence over hiseating and the risk of aspiration was high. the patient continuedto make good urine output however was dependent on the lasix.chest tubes were discontinued on this day. the patient wasre-evaluated by the electrophysiology service again. onpostoperative day number four the patient received a pacemaker andlasix was discontinued on postoperative day number four. thepacemaker was placed by dr. bruess . for more details of thissurgery please refer to his operative note. a medtronic lead wasplaced.on postoperative day number five the patient continued to doextremely well. the patient was av-paced on the pacemaker at arate of 80 with a good blood pressure of 155/70. he weaned downoff of all of his drips and pressure support. the patient was ableto come down to four liters and was able to advance on his diet.the patient made good urine output with only p.o. lasix and thelasix drip was discontinued. the patient was continued on kefzolfor perioperative aicd placement and transfer to the floor. onpostoperative day six and seven the patient continued to doextremely well with no change in his management. the patientcontinued on his lasix , lopressor and aspirin and keflex. anechocardiogram was done that showed an ejection fraction of 30-40percent. there was no change in his management. the patientcontinued to do well advancing in all areas. no instability of hisheart. he advanced to a full house diet making good urine outputwith minimal use of lasix. the patient was therefore dischargedwithout complications and with placement of the pacemaker on5/9/99 .medications on admission: aspirin 81 mg p.o. q day , colace 100 mgp.o. t.i.d. , lasix 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,nph humulin insulin 20 units subcutaneously q a.m. , insulin 10units regular at night , 7 units of regular twice a day , niferex 150mg p.o. b.i.d. , percocet 1-2 tablets p.o. q 4h p.r.n. pain , zantac150 mg p.o. twice a day , coumadin to check with the coumadin clinicfor strict follow up , potassium slow release 10 meq p.o. q day andzocor 40 mg q night.discharge instructions: the patient will be discharged to homewith home services to follow up strictlyon his coumadin dosing. the patient is also to follow up with dr.tommy dorch in 2-4 weeks and cardiology in one week in the coumadinclinic on the next day.dictated by: miquel speers , m.d. bf43attending: reyes b. mclaird , m.d. hl0  gc328/9866batch: 14689 index no. y7lz1a68py d: 5/2/99t: 9/4/99[report_end]