955990523 | cih | 06174242 | | 7023551 | 11/12/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 4/1/2005 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: ohayon , maxwell mdinterim discharge summarythis is a dictation of the patient's cardiac icu stay in lidoflinthamins charlna nardfaythis is an interim dictation covering postoperative days #1-#10.date of admission 6/11/05 . date of discharge from the cardiacicu 11/4/05 . the remainder will be dictated by the pa on thefloor prior to patient's discharge to home including dischargemedications and additional hospital course.service:cardiac surgery service.admission diagnosis:coronary artery disease , three-vessel.discharge diagnosis:three-vessel coronary artery disease status post cabg x4.operations:on 10/2/05 , cabg x4 , sequential graft , svg1 ( aorta to om1 andom2 , lima to lad , svg to pda ).other procedures not in the operating room:video swallow on 6/17/05 .history of present illness:the patient is a 68-year-old male with a history of non-insulindependent diabetes , hypertension , atrial fibrillation , statuspost cardioversion ( on oral amiodarone since 11/13 ) ,nephrolithiasis , lung cancer status post xrt , and right lowerlobectomy in 1996 , presenting with six-month history ofexertional chest pain when climbing greater than one flight ofstairs or walking up hills , relieved with 30 seconds to 1 minuteof rest. the patient describes pain as "burning , " pain in leftchest , nonradiating , not associated with nausea , vomiting , ordiaphoresis. he denies rest pain. the pain has not beenaccelerating or progressive in nature. the patient had apositive exercise tolerance test at lidou henman le valley hospital , limited byreduced exercise tolerance and shortness of breath ( bloodpressure elevated , no ekg changes ) , so went on to have mibi on6/18/05 showing moderate size defect in inferolateral andinferobasal segments with near complete reversibility , normal lvejection fraction of 70% , no regional wall motion abnormalities.cardiac catheterization done on 6/11/05 , at wch showedthree-vessel coronary artery disease with occluded rca , focalsevere proximal lad stenosis , and significant disease of om1 andom2. he presents for a cabg.preoperative cardiac status:elective. the patient presented with critical coronary anatomy.the patient has a history of class ii angina ( slight limitationof coronary activity ). there has been no recent angina. thepatient does not have symptomatic heart failure. the patient isin first-degree av block. the patient has a history ofaf/flutter treated with amiodarone 200 mg p.o. daily aftercardioversion in 1997.previous cardiovascular interventions:none.past medical history:hypertension , diabetes; on oral agents , hypothyroidism ,hypercholesterolemia , copd; on bronchodilator therapy , chestradiation to right lung , nephrolithiasis , childhood polio , atrialfibrillation status post cardioversion ( on amiodarone 200 mg p.o.daily since 11/13 ) , lung cancer status post xrt , and right lowerlobe lobectomy in 1996 , mild peripheral neuropathy ( diabetic ) ,diabetic retinopathy , cataracts , colonic polyps , hypothyroidism ,cad , angina , asthma , and radiation bronchiectasis.past surgical history:status bronchoscopy , right thoracotomy , right lower lobelobectomy with radical lymph node dissection on 10/15/96 , statuspost bronchoscopy and cervical mediastinoscopy 10/1/96 , statuspost attempted extraction of kidney stones with left flankincision in 1960.family history:coronary artery disease , father with mi at age 64.social history:history of tobacco use , 100-pack-year cigarette smoking history ,history of occasional alcohol use. the patient is retiredmanager for o le arl and drives rental cars now.allergies:sulfa , unknown reaction.admission medications:lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. , amlodipine 5 mg p.o. daily ,lisinopril 40 mg p.o. daily , amiodarone 200 mg p.o. daily ,isosorbide 60 mg p.o. daily , aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily ,hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. daily , albuterol two puffs q.i.d. ,fluticasone two puffs b.i.d. , lipitor 20 mg p.o. daily , avapro150 mg p.o. daily , levoxyl 112 mcg p.o. daily , glyburideone-quarter tablet of 5 mg tablet p.o. daily.physical examinaton:height and weight: 5 feet 9 inches , 69.1 kg. vital signs:temperature 96.9 , heart rate 62 , blood pressure on the right145/82 and on the left 142/79 , satting 95% on room air. heent:pupils are equal and reactive , dentition without evidence ofinfection. no carotid bruits. chest: right thoracotomyincision , well healed. cardiovascular: right: regular rate andrhythm , no murmurs. allen's test , left upper extremity normal ,right upper extremity normal. pulses , 2+ carotid , radial ,femoral , dorsalis pedis , posterior tibials bilaterally.respiratory: clear to auscultation bilaterally. prolongedexpiration , scattered mild rhonchi , diffusely on the left ,decreased breath sounds , right base. abdomen: well-healed leftflank incision , soft , no masses. extremities: with scarring ,varicosities , or edema. neuro: alert and oriented.preoperative labs:notable for creatinine of 1.3 , hematocrit of 37.2 , and platelets257 , 000. cardiac catheterization data , 6/11/05 , 70% proximallad lesion , 100% mid om1 lesion , 70% ostial om2 lesion , 100%ostial rca lesion , 70% distal rca lesion , right dominantcirculation , collateral flow , sep2 to right pda , collateral flowom1 to om1 , normal left circumflex , levf of 70% with no regionalwall motion abnormalities , no renal artery stenosis.ventriculogram , 70% ejection fraction. ekg: first-degree avblock at 55 , inverted ts in avr , first-degree av block inpostcatheterization ekg. chest x-ray on 6/11/05 with evidenceof prior right lobe lobectomy. lungs are clear no effusions.trachea is slightly deviated to the right.history of present illness and hospital course:the patient was admitted on 6/11/05 following cardiaccatheterization showing three-vessel coronary artery disease withoccluded rca , focal severe proximal lad stenosis , significantdisease of om1 and om2. he was assessed preoperatively forcoronary artery bypass surgery. he was taken to the operatingroom on 10/2/05 where he underwent cabg x4 with the sequentialgraft with saphenous vein graft , one connecting the aorta to om1then om2 , lima to lad , saphenous graft 2 to pda. the patient wasthen bypassed for 108 minutes. he left the operating room withone ventricular wire , two pericardial tubes ( blake drains ) , andone left pleural tube ( blake drain ). for further details , pleasesee the dictated operative note. the patient was taken to thecardiac surgery icu on claseat following surgery.icu course by system:neuro: the patient was alert and oriented x3 throughout his icustay. following extubation , the patient had marginal respiratorystatus , so pain control was accomplished with iv dilaudid. thepatient had a history of chronic renal insufficiency , so toradolwas avoided. when the patient was taking p.o.'s , dilaudid waschanged to p.o. dilaudid. pain control was good with oraldilaudid throughout his icu stay.cardiovascular: the patient was in normal sinus rhythm onpostoperative day #1 through #3. however , the patient flippedinto atrial fibrillation in the 110s to 120s at 0100 onpostoperative day #3. he was started initially on his home doseof 200 mg p.o. daily of amiodarone. however , later onpostoperative day #3 , this was changed to an amiodarone drip.the patient was continued on amiodarone drip at 1 for six hoursand later decreased to 0.5 of amiodarone drip. amiodarone dripcontinued from postoperative day #4 to #5. the patient remainedin atrial fibrillation , so on postoperative day #3 at 1:00 a.m.to postoperative day #6 , when he converted to sinus rhythm at0500. the patient was transitioned to 200 mg p.o. daily ofamiodarone , which she was continued on at home after receivingone full day of 400 mg p.o. t.i.d. amiodarone. he wastransferred out of the unit on 200 mg p.o. daily of amiodarone.the patient was started on 50 mg p.o. q.i.d. of lopressor. sincepostoperative day #6 , the patient has remained in rate controlledsinus rhythm without any episodes of atrial fibrillation. thepatient is also on aspirin and zocor.respiratory: the patient is status post right lower lobectomy in1996 for lung cancer and has a 100-year smoking history. hisrespiratory status was marginal following extubation at 0400 onpostoperative day #1. the patient remained on 100% high flowoxygen from postoperative day #2 to #4. the patient requiredq.2h. nasotracheal suctioning and q.1h. chest pt in order to keephim from being re-intubated. from postoperative day #2 to #4 , onchest x-ray , the patient's right middle lobe appeared to becollapsed. there was a question of atelectasis versus pneumonia.the patient was started on levofloxacin on 9/30/05 onpostoperative day #2 , for questionable right middle lobepneumonia , as lobe is collapsed and the patient had extremelythick secretions. the patient was continued on aggressive chestpt and pulmonary toilet. he had a strong cough and was able tocough up thick secretions on his own. the patient was unable onpostoperative day #2 to #3 to remove mask without desats into the70s to 80s. he was started on his nebulizers around the clock onatrovent and mucomyst nebs , as well as his home inhalers offluticasone and albuterol. the patient appeared to be tiringearly in the morning on postoperative day #3 and anesthesia wascalled for an evaluation but the patient continued to strugglealong on 100% oxygen for two more days between bipap and 100%high flow oxygen. with bipap , patient's po2 on his gas wasimproved. abgs continued improved as the patient was able tomobilize more. the patient is diuresed with the lasix drip withimprovement in his respiratory status as well. the goal is tokeep patient 1 liter negative in order to improve his pulmonarystatus. the patient had an episode on postoperative day #3 of20-second loss of consciousness while getting nasotrachealsuction around 2300 on 8/28/05 . this was initially thought tobe hypoxic in origin. however , the patient had two furtherepisodes with strong cough on postoperative day #5 and #6 of 20to 30-second losses of consciousness with no signs of a vagalorigin on cardiac monitor.by postoperative day #5 to #6 , the patient's respiratory statushad improved. diuresis was continued. the patient was given adedicated triple-lumen catheter with a dedicated tpn line on8/20/05 , postoperative day #4 , as it was unclear whether thepatient would turn the corner and avoid intubation , and thepatient was also without nutrition for several days at thispoint. the patient continued to improve in terms of hisrespiratory status with diuresis. by postoperative day #6 , thepatient's right middle lobe appeared to be re-expanding on chestx-ray. it continued to be re-expanded from postoperative day #6to #10 on transfer from the unit on 11/4/05 . the patient iscontinued on t.i.d. lasix after his drip was turned off on10/22/05 . goal was to keep the patient negative in order tomaximize his pulmonary status. the patient has marginalpulmonary reserve. the patient also continues on levofloxacinfor a total of an 11-day course for prophylaxis againstpneumonia.gi: the patient is on a minced diet on transfer from the unit.the patient was evaluated by speech and swallow. onpostoperative day #5 , 6/17/05 , a bedside evaluation wasperformed and a video swallow was done. the patient at this timewas cleared for puree and thin liquids with a chin tuck. thiswas changed to a minced diet on postoperative day #8 , as thepatient was thought to find this more palatable. the patient wasstarted on nexium following extubation. tpn was started througha dedicated port after a line change on postoperative day #4.this was done , so the patient could continue getting nutritiondespite his marginal respiratory status. tpn was still continuedon discharge from the unit on 11/4/05 , as the patient had beenhaving calorie counts performed by nursing in order to make surethat the patient was taking in adequate nutrition prior todiscontinuation of tpn. the patient continues to be inaspiration risk , as he has very poor pulmonary status atbaseline. continue calorie counts on discharge from the unit andnutrition will recommend stopping tpn when the patient is takingenough in calories orally.renal: the patient's baseline creatinine was 1.3. hiscreatinine has been stable around the 1.6 to 1.8 , postopfollowing diuresis with lasix. the patient was started on alasix drip on postoperative day #1 in order to gently diuresehim. he was continued on a lasix drip until postoperative day #9with adjustments to keep him negative and per chest x-ray everymorning. the patient was transitioned to 20 mg iv t.i.d. lasixon 10/22/05 , on postoperative day #9. this was increased onpostoperative day #10 , 11/4/05 , to 40 mg iv t.i.d. prior totransfer from the unit , as the patient looked wet on chest x-ray.the patient's right middle lobe appeared re-expanded onpostoperative day #6 to #10. this is critical for patient'spulmonary reserve. goal will be to keep the patient negative interms of his fluid balance in order to maximize his pulmonarystatus. his creatinine has continued to remain stable. thepatient is urinating well and responds well to lasix.endocrine: the patient was initially placed on a portlandprotocol and transitioned after postoperative day #3 to novologsliding scales with meals. at the time of transfer from the icu ,he continues on glipizide 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. and then novologsliding scale with meals and nightly. he is also on novolog 8units subcu with meals. this will be continued on transfer.sugar control has been good with these agents. the patientremains on levoxyl 112 mcg p.o. daily for his hypothyroidism.heme: the patient was started on aspirin on postoperative day #0through his orogastric tube. this was continued on postoperativewith ecasa 325 mg p.o. daily , the patient's hematocrit andplatelets have been postop requiring no transfusions.id: the patient was started on levofloxacin on 9/30/05 ,postoperative day #2 , for question of pneumonia with right middlelobe collapse versus pneumonia on chest x-ray. this wascontinued for a total of 11 days. the patient self medicateswith levofloxacin at home for bronchiectasis and chronicbronchitis when his secretions become thick and troublesome.escription document: 9-2592072 emsfocus transcriptionistsdictated by: gables , jeffersonattending: salimas , marcosdictation id 7185852d: 8/29/05t: 8/29/05