109176514 | tbmc | 45975339 | | 5237079 | 2/23/2005 12:00:00 am | respiratory distress | signed | dis | admission date: 9/3/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/6/2005attending: douglas santo featheroff mdof note , the patient was admitted to the ccu and then transferredover to the heart failure service mid admission.principal diagnosis: respiratory distress.other diagnoses: chf , hypertension , bronchospastic asthma ,nonischemic cardiomyopathy , and pulmonary hypertension.brief history of present illness: a 63-year-old female withhypertension , asthma with baseline paf , peak flows of 150 to 175 ,and history of previous nonischemic cardiomyopathy with mostrecent ef of 55% on 4/11/04 as well as pulmonary hypertensionwith the pulmonary artery systolic pressure of 96 mmhg , who wasin her usual state of health until three or four days prior toadmission when she developed cough and symptoms of an upperrespiratory infection. she had no reported fevers or chills. onthe day of admission , the patient was at her friend's house.when she became acutely short of breath , ems was called and perreport , the patient was in a tripod position , sweaty , and felt tobe in respiratory distress. in the ed , she was given 80 mg ivflasix , several nebulizer treatments , and actually that was donein field. shortly after arrival to the ed , the patient appearedto be in worsening distress and she desaturated in terms of heroxygen saturation to the 70% to 80%. she was urgently intubatedand at the time of intubation , there were significant amount ofsecretions/emesis in the secretions. she was given 120 mg ivflasix. chest x-ray at that time showed an infiltrate on the leftconsistent with pulmonary congestion. her bnp on admission was591 , up from 204 on 4/11/04 . the notable labs were ck of 115and mb fraction of 2.8 , a troponin of 0.62 , and a white bloodcell count of 11.7. her abg post intubation was 7.4/54/453 .past medical history: as above. hypertension , asthma , tobaccouse , nonischemic cardiomyopathy , and pulmonary hypertension.medications on admission: albuterol , atorvastatin , aspirin 325mg , flovent b.i.d. , potassium 20 meq t.i.d. , lasix 200 mg b.i.d. ,lisinopril 40 mg q.d. , magnesium oxide , multivitamins , norvasc 10mg q.d. , serevent two puffs b.i.d. , and valium.allergies: metoprolol to which she gets bronchospasm.social history: she presently smokes cigarettes approximatelyhalf a pack to one pack per day x 30 years , unknown whether shedrinks alcohol.physical examination on arrival: temperature of 100.1 , she had aheart rate of 53 in sinus , blood pressure 150/90 , and initialvent settings included assist control with a tidal volume of 500 ,breathing at 12 with an fio2 of 100% , 93%. exam notable for ajvp of 8 and 9 , reactive pupils , diffuse expiratory wheezes onpulmonary exam , irregular tachycardia , s1 , s2 , 3/6 holosystolicmurmur at the left upper sternal border , soft abdomen withpositive bowel sounds , warm extremities , 1+ pitting edema , andnotable labs were as above.her ccu course can be summarized by the following:1. cardiovascular: in terms of her pump , she as noted hadpulmonary congestion on chest x-ray and during her ccu stay ,diuresed approximately 4.7 liters and her weight went down 6 kg.on transfer to the floor of cardiology heart failure service , shestill appeared somewhat volume overloaded to despite 100 mg ivlasix q. day. in terms of her rate , she was normal. on transferfrom the ccu , she had normal sinus rhythm with occasional signsof paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , which was thought possibly dueto her pulmonary process. in terms of her ischemia , she had sometroponin leak , it was thought to be in the setting of chf , butthat was trending downward and her blood pressure was difficultto control likely due to medical noncompliance , longstandinghypertension at home. she was on captopril , hydralazine , andamlodipine.2. in terms o her pulmonary status , there was a question of aleft infiltrate on her chest x-ray , so she was started onlevofloxacin and she was continued to be treated with solu-medroliv with switching to prednisone 60 mg p.o. her abg showed mildretention that would be expected in the setting and we continuedlevalbuterol nebulizers q.4h. as well as atrovent nebulizersq.4h. and did not start a steroid taper.she was transferred from the ccu to the floor on the ace , october2005 , after five-day stay in the ccu.briefly , summarized her floor course by the following problems:1. cardiovascular: in terms of her pump , she was continued tobe diuresed down to what was thought to be a goal dry weightbetween 82 and 84 kg. we were able to accomplish this diuresiswith lasix 120 mg b.i.d. p.o. and did not need to initiate anyform of drips. we attempted to diurese her down to euvolemicweight of approximately 84 kg on discharge. rhythm: on the 30 of augustof october , she developed atrial fibrillation with rapidventricular rate into the 130s and was placed on the diltiazem ivdrip titrated up to a heart rate below 100 , maximal rate reached140 to 150. we switched to diltiazem drip over to diltiazem p.o.t.i.d. up to a dose of eventually 150 mg b.i.d. that was thensequentially brought down later during the admission. we alsostarted digoxin p.o. and started heparin for anticoagulation. itwas at that time decided that electrical cardioversion would notbe optimal in her stay , so it was decided that she would bechemically cardioverted using the drug dofetilide. otherwise ,tikosyn and we initiated the doses of dofetilide on february ,2005 , first with the loading dose of 250 mcg and then with 500mcg b.i.d.. she was watched carefully with ekgs before everydose of dofetilide because of the risk of torsade de pointes andwe kept her magnesium well repleted. she tolerated the chemicalcardioversion and went back into mostly sinus rhythm without toomuch ectopy or signs of any other arrhythmia , then we were ableto decrease her diltiazem down to 60 mg p.o. t.i.d. ischemia:she had small troponin leaks that eventually resolved , thought tobe due to failure. in terms of her cardiovascular status , aright heart cath was done on the march , 2004 , which showedthe following pressures: ra pressures of 10 , pulmonary capillarywedge pressures of 12 , and pulmonary artery pressures of 60 withcardiac output of 6. swan-ganz catheter readings also showedsimilar pressure suggesting that the causes of her respiratorydistress were more respiratory disease in nature as opposed tochf heart failure nature. we , of course , continued gentlediuresis but proceeded to aggressively manage her respiratorydisease. blood pressure: she was maintained on a regimen andeventually discharged in regimen of hydralazine 100 mg t.i.d. ,isordil 40 mg t.i.d. , diltiazem 60 mg t.i.d. , and lisinopril 20mg q.d. as her blood pressures had been hard to control , sheleft here with blood pressures in the ranges of 120 to 150s/40sto 70s.2. pulmonary wise , her respiratory distress seem to be more dueto her significant component of bronchospasm and slowly improvedthroughout the course of admission. we did not begin the taperof her prednisone until after she was discharged. she wasdischarged on 60 mg p.o. q.d. of prednisone and we will begin totaper after four days to 50 mg q.p.m. p.o. q.d. and then afterfour days of that to 40 mg p.o. q.d. , after which the pulmonologyservice will then determine whether she needs further taperingand how fast to do it. she is also continued on flovent 220 mcgfour puffs b.i.d. as well as advair 500/50 mcg b.i.d. inhalers inaddition to her atrovent inhalers in the morning five puffs. shewill be arranged for followup in the pulmonary clinic , 552-3171 ,for management of her asthma , copd , and pulmonary hypertension.the pulmonary fellow input was greatly appreciated.3. heme: she was started on heparin because of the risk of clotformation during her atrial fibrillation with rvr and thentransitioned to coumadin with a dose of 5 mg of coumadin. shouldbe followed up in the coumadin clinic at arvca health network ( onhop fants ho medical center ) who will draw her inr first starting on the16 of october of october when she has an appointment with her pcp. herrenal issues are creatinine , were initially bumped to 1.9 , butcame down steadily to a discharge level of 1.5. she had goodurine output and no other major electrolyte abnormalities afterher initial low sodiums. she did have persistently elevatedbicarbonate levels as would be expected. her white count wassomewhat high , but she was on steroids and was not thought to beinfected.she was visited often by many family members and the followingfollow-up appointments were made in terms of her disposition:she has an appointment with dr. kent odonal , her primary carephysician at liswood health on january , 2005. she has an appointmentwith her primary cardiologist , dr. roman harrington on september ,2005. she has an appointment with the electrophysiology serviceto follow up on her arrhythmia issues on january , 2005 , andshe will be making an appointment with the pulmonology serviceand to followup in a few weeks for her bronchospastic issues.she also has visiting nurses' support setup for her as well asconnection with the coumadin clinic at de medical center .  she was dischargedin a stable condition on july , 2005 with followup. herexam was essentially improved respiratory wise and unchangedcardiac wise. she felt ready to leave.discharge medications: albuterol inhaler two puffs q.4h. ,atrovent inhalers two puffs four times a day , coumadin 5 mg p.o.q.p.m. , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.d. , diltiazem 60 mg p.o. t.i.d. ,enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , flovent 220 mcg inhaledb.i.d. , hydralazine 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. , isordil 40 mg p.o.t.i.d. , lasix 120 mg p.o. b.i.d. , lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d. ,prednisone 60 mg p.o. q.a.m. , and simvastatin 40 mg p.o. q.h.s.in terms of disposition , she again needs pulmonary followup andappointment , which the fellow said that she will be called formthe or-low chadi hospital .escription document: 6-5739697 issten teldictated by: venters , leslieattending: guest , lester kirkdictation id 2512842d: 9/15/05t: 9/15/05