849189450 | ch | 53265193 | | 992856 | 9/18/1995 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | unsigned | dis | admission date: 2/12/1995 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 3/10/1995history of present illness: the patient is a 50 year old man withunstable angina who was referred tothe rhalca medical center for cardiac catheterization andcoronary artery bypass grafting. the patient has a four-yearhistory of coronary artery disease who presented with left-sidedchest pain four days prior to admission. he describes episodes ofchest pain occurring approximately q. two months as well asevidence of shortness of breath although he has a noted picture ofchronic obstructive pulmonary disease.ett in 1989 was negative and he recently described progressivelypoor exercise tolerance to the point that he was taking sublingualntg on a twice daily basis for exertional angina. one week priorto admission he developed severe substernal chest discomfort atrest , lasting approximately 10 minutes. then , after taking asublingual ntg , he reported loss of consciousness for a duration of20 to 30 seconds at which point he was taken to the spena hospital byan emt. at the clinic he received intravenous ntg , heparin anddiltiazem.an ett thallium demonstrated reperfusion abnormalities in theinferior and anterior walls. he left the ca awythe stosit memorial hospital ama to seehis cardiologist on the 11th who referred him to the troydale health for elective catheterization. at the time ofpresentation he denied chest pain or shortness of breath. cardiacrisk factors are notably an 80-pack year smoking history , familyhistory of heart disease , hypercholesterolemia and noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.past medical history: notable for history of interstitial lungdisease , hyperlipidemia , ge reflux , chronic bronchitis andobstructive sleep apnea. medications on admit: cardizem 120mgp.o.b.i.d. , mevacor 20mg p.o.b.i.d. , pepcid 40mg p.o.q.d. , ventolinand seldane taken on a prn basis. allergies: nkda.physical examination: six centimeters of jvd , normal cardiacexamination with intact distal pulses.diminished breath sounds bilaterally.laboratory evaluation: unremarkable.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the cardiologyservice and underwent cardiac catheterizationdemonstrating 80% distal stenosis of the left main as well as theorigin of the lad with additional occlusion of the midportion ofthe lad and distal carotid , 80% stenosis of midportion of leftcircumflex and proximal occlusion of the right coronary. previouspulmonary function tests performed in october included an fev-1 of2.53 , fev-1/fvc of 83 , fvc 3.05. he was seen preoperatively by thedental service. he was felt to have a possible periodontal abscessof tooth #32 for which a course of p.o. penicillin was recommendedand completed.on the 13 of november , the patient received double coronary artery bypassgraft including pedicle lima bypass to the lad and lad patchangioplasty with a single aortocoronary saphenous vein bypass graftto the obtuse marginal. he tolerated the procedure well. he wasadmitted to the cardiac surgery intensive care unit in routinefashion without complications. he was stable in sinus rhythm. hehad a somewhat higher than normal o2 requirement which diminishedwith diuresis.his hospital course proceeded without complications although he diddemonstrate a low-grade fever and leukocytosis up to 20 , 000 forwhich he was started on an empiric course of cefuroxime forradiographic infiltrate although his sputum cultures were notdefinitive. he was evaluated by the id service and culturedappropriately with continuation of empiric antibiotics. hecontinued to demonstate low-grade fevers during the course of hishospital stay with persistent leukocytosis in the range of 14 to16k prior to discharge. no definite source of infection wasidentified.all of his wound sites looked clean and cultures remained negative.he was weaned off oxygen for some time. he had no productivecough. on the 28 of november we discharged him to home ama , althoughencouraged a stay for further evaluation of his fever andleukocytosis.disposition: aspirin 325mg q.d. , diltiazem 120mg p.o.t.i.d. ,colace 100mg t.i.d. , iron sulfate 300mg t.i.d. , lasix80mg p.o.b.i.d. , mevacor 20mg p.o.b.i.d. , mvi one p.o.q.d. ,percocet one to two tabs. q. 4 prn , kcl 40mil/eq p.o.b.i.d. andciprofloxacin 500mg p.o.b.i.d. x 10 days taken with clindamycin300mg p.o.q.i.d. he was encouraged to see his cardiologist forfollow-up over the following week and should return todr. donnie daidone office during this interval prior to completionof his antibiotics.dictated by: harley c. arnold , m.d. ac13attending: alexis e. newbrough , m.d. ju9  if181/8678batch: 45688 index no. jugeyg102w d: 5/12/95t: 5/12/95