record #600370784666258 | ham | 38232220 | | 992892 | 11/10/1997 12:00:00 am | chronic obstructive pulmonary disease | signed | dis | admission date: 2/27/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/10/1997admitting diagnosis: asthma/chronic obstructive pulmonary diseaseflare.discharge diagnosis: asthma/chronic obstructive pulmonary diseaseflare.coronary artery disease , status post coronaryartery bypass graft in 1994.insulin dependent diabetes mellitus.paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.degenerative joint disease.status post bilateral total knee replacement.status post parathyroidectomy.chronic renal insufficiency.bilateral cataracts.chief complaint: shortness of breath.history of present illness: the patient is a 75 year old female ,with a history of coronary arterydisease , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , and diabetes , whopresented with chest tightness and a nonproductive cough. thepatient basically complained of a two to three day history ofcough , congestion , and wheezing. she had a productive coughproductive of white clear sputum. the patient also stated that herrespirations were accompanied by chest tightness , different fromher angina equivalent. the patient denied fevers , chills , nightsweats , or dizziness. she had no diarrhea , nausea , or vomiting.the patient initially presented to lomont memorial hospital where chestx-ray was clear , without evidence of infiltrate. the patient wastransferred to daballginor is valley medical center emergency department forfurther evaluation. in the emergency department at wduh , it wasfelt that the patient deserved admission to the short stay unit forvery mild congestive heart failure exacerbation and bronchospasticepisode. the patient was given one dose of solu-medrol 80 mgintravenously and transferred up on albuterol and atroventnebulizers. of note , the patient had a history of increasedglucose intolerance on steroids. she also had pulmonary functiontests on 23 of august which demonstrated an fev1 of 1.27 which was 69%of predicted and an fvc of 1.75 which was 75% of predicted.echocardiogram in july 1994 demonstrated mild to moderate decreasedleft ventricular function with regional wall motion abnormalityconsistent with her old apical septal and inferobasilar infarcts.ejection fraction at that time was 45%. the patient had previouslybeen treated with biaxin and then switched to augmentin in theshort stay unit for treatment of possible bronchitis. other issuesin the short stay unit were a question of an infection of the leftgreat toe with a history of diabetes. the patient was transferredto ri on 14 of april in stable condition.past medical history: 1 ) history of congestive heart failure.2 ) coronary artery disease , status postcoronary artery bypass graft in 1994 , lima to lad and an svg graftto om1 , distal om1 and rca. 3 ) insulin dependent diabetes.4 ) paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. 5 ) degenerative joint disease.6 ) asthma/chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 7 ) status postbilateral total knee replacements. 8 ) status postparathyroidectomy for hyperparathyroidism. 9 ) chronic renalinsufficiency. 10 ) status post brown tumor excision of the rightradius. 11 ) constipation. 12 ) rectocele repair in february 1997.13 ) cataracts.allergies: the patient is allergic to bactrim which causes rash.medications: medications on transfer from the short stay unitincluded atrovent nebulizers .5 q.4h. , mevacor 20 mgq.d. , premarin .625 mg q.d. , cardizem cd 300 mg per day , vasotec7.5 mg q.d. , enteric coated aspirin 81 mg q.d. , calcium carbonate625 mg q.d. , colace 100 mg b.i.d. , vitamin c 500 mg per day ,prednisone 40 mg per day , sliding scale insulin nph 12 units in themorning and 5 units at night , lasix 20 mg per day , albuterolnebulizer 2.5 mg q.3h. , augmentin 250/125 mg t.i.d. , and lotrimin1%.social history: the patient lives with her husband and grownchildren in harsaport the patient denied tobaccoor ethanol history.physical examination: on admission , this was an elderly femalesitting in a chair in no apparent distress.vital signs included temperature of 97.1 , heart rate 84 , bloodpressure 128/78 , and breathing of 99% on 3 liters. heent: pupilswere equal , round , and reactive to light. extraocular movementswere intact. moist mucous membranes were noted. oropharynx wasclear , without lesions. neck had 2+ carotid pulses bilaterallywithout bruits. jugular venous pressure was estimated atapproximately 5 cm. lungs had a few end expiratory wheezesbilaterally at the bases. heart revealed a regular rate and rhythmwith normal s1 and s2 and no rubs , gallops , or murmurs. abdominalexam was soft , with positive bowel sounds , nontender , nondistended ,with no hepatosplenomegaly. extremities demonstrated 1+ peripheralpulses bilaterally. status post bilateral total knee replacementscars were notable. there were 1+ femoral pulses. she had a leftgreat toe with tenderness and erythema. no lymphangitic changeswere appreciated.labs on transfer: sodium was 137 , potassium 4.4 , chloride 105 ,bicarbonate 23 , bun 49 , creatinine 1.6 , glucose129. iron was 76 , ferritin 236. white count was 16.5 , hematocrit33.3 , and platelets 255 , with an mcv of 89.7. chest x-raydemonstrated elevated left hemidiaphragm with minimal atelectasisat the left base. lungs were clear. she was status post coronaryartery bypass grafting. pulmonary vasculature was normal. she hadnotable degenerative joint disease of the thoracic spine. therewas no evidence of acute disease. ecg demonstrated normal sinusrhythm at 70 beats per minute with left atrial enlargement , poor rwave progression , old q's in 3 , and no acute st-t wave changes.assessment: the assessment for this woman was an acute chronicobstructive pulmonary disease/bronchospastic airwaydisease exacerbation , as well as left great toe infection.hospital course: 1 ) pulmonary: the patient was initially admittedon 12 of may to the short stay unit as stated inthe history of present illness and received one dose of solu-medrolintravenously in the emergency department and then started onprednisone 40 mg p.o. q.d. she was also placed on atrovent andalbuterol nebulizers. the patient noted slow improvement insymptoms , as well as peak flows. peak flow initially on admissionwas around 200 and on transfer from the short stay unit was about250. once the patient was transferred to the floor , she had notedsignificant improvement , requiring decreased 02 , essentially torequire no 02 on 25 of august with an 02 saturation of 96%. thepatient was changed to metered dose inhalers with aerochamber on25 of august which consisted of serevent two puffs b.i.d. , vancerilfour puffs b.i.d. , and albuterol two puffs q.i.d. , with notedimprovement. the patient was also continued on 40 mg of prednisonep.o. q.d. , as well as augmentin for question of bronchitis. on25 of september the patient was found to have slight scattered endexpiratory wheezes , however , was moving good air. it was decidedto discharge the patient from a pulmonary standpoint on vancerilfour puffs b.i.d. , serevent two puffs b.i.d. , and albuterol twopuffs q.i.d. for seven days , then p.r.n. the patient's peak flowon the day of discharge was approximately 250 as well , however ,notable symptomatic improvement was achieved. the patient is tofollow-up with dr. ledee in one week.2 ) left great toe cellulitis. an infectious disease consult wasobtained , and it was felt that bone films would be in order to ruleout any evidence of chronic osteomyelitis as well as to continueon augmentin 250 mg t.i.d. bone films were obtained which werenegative for any evidence of chronic osteomyelitis. subsequently ,esr was checked which was elevated at 73. as well , a bone scanobtained to rule out chronic osteomyelitis of the left great toe ,the results of which on the preliminary reading were as follows.the right foot was diffusely hyperemic. the left foot potentiallycould be underperfused in relation to the right foot secondary todiabetic vascular changes. on the delayed images , the right secondproximal phalanx had a slight prominence. the left secondmetatarsophalangeal joint had a slight prominence. she alsodemonstrated an abnormal right mid foot at the proximalmetatarsophalangeal joints of the medial three metatarsals ,possibly consistent with neuropathic joint. there was also aprominence of bilateral tibial components of the knees which couldbe suggestive of prosthetic loosening , however , this was notconfirmed by clinical exam. in essence , there was no evidence ofchronic osteomyelitic changes. therefore , it was decided tocontinue a total of a 14 day course of augmentin 250 mg t.i.d.for this issue. if symptoms were to worsen or not improve fully ,the patient is to follow-up again with her primary medical doctors ,dr. tomkus or dr. lesesne , as well as potentially setting her up inthe infectious disease clinic for further follow-up.3 ) miscellaneous. as to the remainder of her medical issues , thepatient was maintained on her home medications and demonstrated noissues. therefore , the patient was discharged on 25 of september instable condition.follow-up: the patient is to make an appointment and follow-upwith dr. alls for her chronic obstructive pulmonarydisease/asthma flare. she is also to follow-up with dr. liddicoat inthree weeks to one month for her endocrinologic issues. vna willcheck glucose measurements twice a week , the results of which areto be called in to her endocrinologist.discharge medications: augmentin 250 mg p.o. t.i.d. with foodtimes 11 more days , enteric coated aspirin81 mg q.d. , calcium carbonate 625 mg q.d. , cardizem cd 300 mg perday , premarin .625 mg q.d. , mevacor 20 mg at night , proventil mdiwith spacer two puffs q.i.d. times seven days then p.r.n. , colace100 mg b.i.d. , vitamin c 500 mg q.d. , prednisone taper 40 mg timesone day then 30 mg times three days then 20 mg times three daysthen 10 mg times three days , nph insulin 12 units subcutaneouslyq.a.m. and 5 units subcutaneously q.p.m. , regular insulin 4 unitssubcutaneously q.a.m. and 6 units subcutaneously q.lunch and 4units subcutaneously q.p.m. , lasix 20 mg q.d. , serevent two puffsp.o. b.i.d. , vanceril four puffs b.i.d. , and lotrimin 1% cream.diet: low salt , low fat , low cholesterol , ada.activities: as tolerated.dictated by: richard nuchols , m.d. gl76attending: luther l. dragula , m.d. bm9bb372/0917batch: 33691 index no. g4iraz39rm d: 0/14/97t: 9/22/97[report_end]