record #600921787502532 | brh | 92648184 | | 361994 | 3/0/1992 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 1/13/1992 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/2/1992history of present illness: this is a 72 year old black femalewith a history of hypertension ,angina , adult onset diabetes , admitted after a syncopal event. shehas a known history of syncope which dates as far back as the late1960s. in 1970 she had an episode of loss of consciousness with 30seconds of generalized tonic convulsions witnessed by her daughter.an eeg at that time showed diffuse theta waves but was nonfocal.the patient was treated with dilantin for less than a year. in1972 she had another episode of syncope associated withhyperventilation. in 1983 she had yet another episode of syncopeand a 24 hour holter started after the event showed a heart ratethat went as low as 38 but was not associated with any symptoms. in1987 she had a vasovagal event which was later aggravated when herneighbor gave her a nitroglycerin tablet. throughout this time shehas had multiple other episodes of syncope. her last episode wasin 1989 , when she was admitted to the cardiology team for workup.her ekg was unremarkable , 24 hour holter was normal , anechocardiogram was normal , and she underwent an exercise stresstest which did not show ischemic changes. in march of 1992 , shehad carotid ultrasounds for symptoms of right hand and legnumbness. they did not show significant stenosis. in march of1992 , she was admitted and ruled out for a myocardial infarctionand was started on isordil and lopressor empirically but these werelater discontinued. in february of 1992 she had a clinic visit withdr. ed ville who is her call medical center doctor. the patient indicatesthat she has stable exertional angina without limitation of dailyactivity , chest pain is relieved with nitroglycerin and her mostrecent episode was last week. she has also been on a stable doseof micronase for the last couple of years. on the morning ofadmission , the patient awoke and felt fine , and was getting readyto have coffee with her friends upstairs. she was reaching forsomething across the table and suddenly felt a sharp pain in herback and fell unconscious into the chair. estimated loss ofconsciousness was 6-7 minutes. she awoke confused , did not knowher name and had a little bit of difficulty seeing. it was unclearby her history whether her vision was blurry or whether she feltthat there was a shade across her eyes. she denies any doublevision. prior to this event she did not experience any prodrome oraura. she also denied chest pain , shortness of breath orpalpitations. there was no loss of bladder or bowel functionduring the event. the patient was given orange juice after theepisode and gradually she regained awareness of her surroundings.her vital signs were stable. she was brought to tia medical centerfor evaluation. there was a question of upper extremity twitchingby report from observers. past medical history: hypertensiondating at least 10 years back and is presently not requiring anytreatment. she has a history , as mentioned , of recurrent syncopalevents. she was diagnosed a couple of years ago with adult onsetdiabetes and has been on a stable dose of micronase. the patientalso has a history of multiple colonic polyps and in 1983 underwenta left hemicolectomy for multiple polyps. in 1988 she underwent anileal resection for large inflammatory polyps leading to a smallbowel obstruction. she has had a cholecystectomy and anappendectomy in the distant past. the patient also a history ofglaucoma. in 1973 and 1976 she had a right lower extremity dvt ,etiology was unclear. the patient does not smoke , drink or use anydrugs. medications on admission include aspirin one tablet q d ,questran one pack q d , micronase 5 mg po q d , betaxolol eye dropsbid to each eye , pilocarpine eye drops tid to each eye ,eye drops bid to each eye. the patient receives monthly vitaminb12 injections. she also takes nitroglycerin with chest pain.family history is significant for a brother who suffered a strokeat the age of 74. there is also a family history of heart attacks.no family history of gastrointestinal cancer. social history: thepatient is separated and lives by herself in hutmill rd. , bock tonlake son , north dakota 32472 she haseight children with many grandchildren. review of systems isnotable for episodes of sweats and nervousness over the last weekwhich she describes as being similar to the hot flashes ofmenopause which she had at age 49. these episodes are occurring afew times a day but do not in any way coincide with her syncopalevents. she is also complaining of right hand and foot numbnesswhich have increased in frequency. the numbness occasionally wakesher up at night. she denies any motor weakness whatsoever.physical examination: she is an elderly , mildly obese female , inno apparent distress. she was afebrile , witha blood pressure of 126/70 , a heart rate of 60 , and a respiratoryrate of 18. heent exam was notable for pinpoint constriction ofher pupils secondary to her glaucoma eyedrops. her pupils werereactive. her throat was benign. she had dentures. her neck wassupple , without lymphadenopathy or thyromegaly. chest examrevealed bibasilar , coarse crackles. on cardiac exam she had nojugular venous distention , and carotids were normal without bruits.she had a regular rate and rhythm with s1 , s2 , and an occasionals4. there were no murmurs. abdominal exam was benign. the patientwas guaiac negative. extremities were without edema and there wasno calf tenderness. the neurologic exam was entirely nonfocal.laboratory data: includes a sodium of 143 , potassium of 4.3 ,chloride of 109 , bicarbonate of 20 , bun of 21;creatinine was 1.0. the glucose was 160. her calcium andphosphate were normal. her hematocrit was 43.4 , her white count6.45 with a normal differential. her coagulation factors werenormal. her liver function tests were normal. a chest x rayshowed a calcific aorta but was otherwise clear. c spine x ray andhead ct on admission were also negative. the ekg showed no changesfrom her baseline.hospital course: the patient was placed on a cardiac monitor , andher micronase was held. in fact , her fingerstickglucose went as low as 80 that evening. on day two of admission ,the patient had syncopal event while in house. she was apparentlywalking about after having washed her face and was reaching to pullthe curtain when she began feeling lightheaded. she told the nurseimmediately , who tried to get her on the bed , and the patientcollapsed on the bed , was limp and lost consciousness for about 3-5minutes. she had a systolic blood pressure of 200/105 and a heartrate of 90. there were no changes on the cardiac monitor , and thepatient was noted to maintain a strong pulse at all times. she wasgiven nitro paste and 1 amp of d50. fingerstick glucose was thennoted to be 232. the patient was witnessed to have mild twitchingof her jaw and eyelids and after five minutes , she opened her eyesbut was not able to respond. when asked to give her name , she wasnot able to answer. the confusion subsided over the next couple ofminutes , and the patient was able to respond and was alert andoriented. however , she had no recollection of the event. furtherworkup included a head mri , mr angiogram of her vertebrobasilarcirculation , a sleep deprived eeg , a cardiac echo , and a 24 hourholter. all of the above were negative. we also applied carotidsinus stimulation and she showed no change in heart rate to eitherside. the etiology of her syncopal event is not completely clear.it appears that the patient does have a history of a witnessedseizure but also has had syncopal events consistent with eitherbradycardia or a vasovagal event.disposition: the patient is discharged to home with plans for arepeat 24 hour holter as an outpatient. follow up:she will follow up with dr. danilo mcquaid in the therplea hospital clinic.condition on discharge: stable. discharge medications includeaspirin one tablet po q d , questran one package po q d , pilocarpineeye drops tid per eye , betaxolol eye drops bid per eye ,eye drops bid per eye , sublingual nitroglycerin prn chest pain ,naprosyn 375 mg tid prn.discharge diagnosis: syncope.other diagnoses: borderline type ii diabetes , stable exertionalangina , and glaucoma.iq732/2070chuck vondrasek , m.d. tn3 d: 5/8/92batch: 8886 report: w5608n6 t: 8/0/92dictated by: gruner , mauro rupert kraigcc: 1. harris lembrick , m.d./dept. of med2. elbert strejan , m.d./dept. of med[report_end]