305265793_dfih283367923424/19316532075/30/1994 12:00:00 am(1) stage iiic ovarian carcinoma .unsigneddisreport status :unsignedadmission date :05/30/94discharge date :06/23/94principal diagnosis :(1) stage iiic ovarian carcinoma .secondary diagnoses :(1) right lower lobe pneumonia .(2) failure to thrive ;(3) obstructive uropathy .identifying data and chief complaint :mrs. saujule t. neathe is a 73 year old gravida 6 para 4 abortions 2 with a background history of stage iiic papillary serous adenocarcinoma of the ovary who presents on 5/30/94 for failure to thrive , right lower lobe pneumonia and obstructive uropathy .history of present illness :the patient was diagnosed with ovarian carcinoma in the summer of 1992 when she presented with abdominal distention .at that time she was taken to the operating room and an ileostomy and colectomy performed .the admission was complicated by the development of a right calf deep venous thrombosis on postoperative day four .the patient was referred then to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital where she underwent thrombectomy .one month later the patient was readmitted to fairm of ijordcompmac hospital for definitive debulking including total abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy , omentectomy , splenectomy and ileostomy take-down by dr. slaineaee chabechird .thereafter she underwent line 1 chemotherapy with cis platinum , vp16 which she received six cycles and which was completed in march of 1993 .this course of chemotherapy was complicated only by persistent diarrhea and some nausea and vomiting .on 4/28/94 the patient developed a left femoral deep venous thrombosis requiring admission for anticoagulation .an abdominopelvic computerized tomography scan during that admission showed recurrent disease in the pelvis with bilateral hydronephrosis .bilateral ureteric stents were placed prior to discharge .two days following discharge , however , the patient was admitted to sephsandpot center because of a decreased urinary output and persistent nausea and vomiting and anorexia .she was maintained on intravenous fluids and received a transfusion of prilosec which helped her urinary obstruction .on this regimen she showed good improvement and was discharge home .she was then seen on 5/30/94 at fairm of ijordcompmac hospital for a routine chemotherapy but complained of decreased urinary output , nausea and vomiting and poor appetite and was therefore admitted .past medical history :is as detailed above .past surgical history :she is also status post appendectomy in 1944 and dilation and curettage in 1945 .allergies :she is allergic to shellfish .drug allergies :she has no known drug allergies .medications on admission :include coumadin 2.5 mg. p.o. q.h.s. , omeprazole 20 mg. p.o. q.d. , m.v.i. one tablet p.o. q.d. , ferrous sulfate 325 mg. p.o. b.i.d. , ativan .5 mg. p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. for sleep and tylenol no. 3 one to two tablets p.o. 4 hourly for pain .physical examination :( on admission ) showed the patient to be low-grade febrile with temperature of 99.6 , vital signs were stable with a blood pressure of 104/68 and a pulse of 92 , respiratory rate 16 .she was noted to be a thin , cachectic woman in no apparent distress .head and neck examination remarkable only for extreme dry mucous membranes consistent with dehydration .she had slightly icteric sclera , no adenopathy or thyromegaly .lungs examination was unremarkable with no focal pathology , breasts were within normal limits .heart :regular rate and rhythm , no evidence of evidence , cardiac failure or endocarditis .abdomen :showed well healed midline scar , non-distended , non-tender , bowel sounds were good , multiple small nodules were palpated subcutaneously in the upper abdomen which was non-tender , there was no costovertebral angle tenderness .pelvic and rectal examinations confirmed recurrence of tumor mass in the pelvis .the patient was occult blood negative .extremities :showed no evidence of acute deep venous thrombosis .however , left leg had two plus pitting edema to the knee whereas the right leg had minimal edema .laboratory data :( on admission ) showed sodium 119 , potassium 9.8 ( the specimen was hemolyzed ) bun and creatinine of 26 and 2.3 respectively , glucose 104 , alt was 13 , total bilirubin .5 , alkaline phosphatase 62 , white blood cell count was 17.7 , hematocrit 26.7 , platelet count 223,000 , prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time were 22.1 and 37 respectively .i and r was 5.2. urinalysis showed no white blood cells and few bacteria .chest x-ray from 5/18/94 was within normal limits .in summary :the patient was assessed as a 72 year old woman with a background of stage iiic ovarian carcinoma and documented local recurrence who presents for line 2 of cycle 1 chemotherapy with adriamycin , ifex and mesna .she also has a low-grade fever of unknown etiology , has a background history of deep venous thrombosis and is therefore currently on anticoagulation and she shows evidence of dehydration and failure to thrive .it was decided at that time to hold off with the chemotherapy .hospital course :the patient was therefore admitted to the gyn / oncology service under the care of dr. chabechird .laboratory tests were repeated in view of some of the above abnormalities and was remarkable for sodium 138 , potassium 4.0 , bun and creatinine remained elevated at 36 and 2.8 respectively .urinalysis showed 10-20 white blood cells .in view of the nausea and vomiting a nasogastric tube was placed to which the patient some relief .repeat chest x-ray showed evidence of right lower lobe pneumonia .renal ultrasound was performed which showed moderate right and severe left hydronephrosis , bilateral ureteric stents were visualized .dr. ryna r. jescdrig from the urology service was consulted in view of the above findings .he requested a lasix renal nuclear medicine scan which showed high-grade obstruction of both kidneys , left greater than right and minimal clearance with lasix .neither kidney appeared to be completely obstructed .in view of these results with the elevated white blood count , elevated creatinine , dr. jescdrig felt that the patient was inadequately stented .as a result she was taken back to the operating room on 6/2/94 and under cystoscopy the old stents were removed and new larger stents were placed .the patient was started on ampicillin and gentamicin for urinary tract infection which ultimately grew out escherichia coli sensitive to the above antibiotics and for right lower lobe pneumonia on x-ray .she was started on nebulizers around-the-clock and chest physical therapy .sputum culture was sent but failed to identify an infective organism .on the above regimen the patient showed marked improvement .her urinary output remained good at 80-100 ccs. per hour .however , her bun and creatinine remained elevated .on 6/5/94 they were 21 and 2.2 respectively .her coumadin anticoagulation was adjusted to give a prothrombin time between 16 and 18 and an i and r of 2.5-3 .on june 5 , 1994 it was decided that mrs. neathe was not stable enough with a line 2 cycle i chemotherapy with ifex , adriamycin and mesna .she was therefore well hydrated and was started on her chemotherapy .in view of her kidney damage it was suggested to change her intravenous antibiotics from ancef and gentamicin to ancef and ciprofloxacin which she tolerated well .on 6/7/94 the patient was found to be mildly confused with persistent nausea and malaise .urinary electrolytes were noted to be within normal limits but her confusion persisted .a neuro-oncology consult was sought which felt this was probably secondary to ifex intoxication and her chemotherapy was stopped .an electroencephalogram was requested and was negative .no computerized tomography scan or magnetic resonance imaging study of the head was performed .she continued to have persistent nausea and vomiting with large amount of drainage through the nasogastric tube between 1200 and 1500 ccs. for 24 hours .off her ifex the patient &apos;s sensorium slowly cleared but the nausea and vomiting persisted .for this reason a barium study was performed on 6/12/94 which showed a fixed stricture at the anastomosis of the descending colon with the rectum .the mucosa appeared to be preserved .in addition there was some narrowing in the mid portion of the descending colon .the patient &apos;s white blood count which had been followed carefully began to drop precipitously on 6/11/94 and nadired down to 0.7 on 6/12/94 .the patient was placed on neutropenic precautions , her intravenous antibiotics were continued .her sensorium had cleared .because of persistent nausea and vomiting on june 13 , 1994 a kub and upright was requested which showed large amounts of retained barium confirming a rectosigmoid stricture approximately one centimeter in diameter .the patient &apos;s white blood count persisted in the region of .5 to .6 with an anc of 60 for the next two to three days .in addition her platelets began to drop and reach a level on 6/13/94 .she was maintained on intravenous antibiotics and gcsf therapy was started because of the profound neutropenia .despite the low platelets the patient showed no evidence of active bleeding and was not transfused .a gastrograffin upper gastrointestinal was attempted on 6/14/94 but was unsuccessful due to nausea and vomiting .on conservative therapy the patient &apos;s nausea and vomiting has slowly subsided .a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy ( peg ) tube was placed on june 18 , 1994 which has helped to decompress the stomach and prevent nausea and vomiting .on 6/17/94 in view of a drop in hematocrit to 25 , the patient was transfused three units of packed red blood cells , white count however had increased to 8.5 and her platelets were on their way up , count was 74,000 .and she was not given platelets in addition .throughout this period the patient &apos;s pain remained well controlled on patient controlled analgesia .after much discussion with the family and social services it was decided to transfer the patient home once stable .on august 21 , 1994 a picc line was placed to facilitate home patient controlled analgesia ( pca ) and on 6/23/94 this was found to be correctly positioned on chest x-ray .on june 23 , 1994 the patient was found to be mobilizing relatively well with few episodes of nausea and vomiting .the peg tube was found to be draining well .she was discharged home in a stable condition into the care of her family .in addition she will be followed by sephsandpot center and dwardsc center who will arrange for home pca ( patient controlled analgesia ) .the patient &apos;s prognosis is guarded .her current code status is do not resuscitate ( dnr ) .medications on discharge :include omeprazole 20 mg. p.o. q.d. , timoptic eye drops .5 percent one drop ou b.i.d.she will receive intravenous fluids d5 1/2 normal saline plus 20 of potassium at 110 ccs / hour at home and is going to be placed on a subcutaneous morphine pump as arranged by sephsandpot center .the patient may have liquids as tolerated but no solid foods .in addition she will be followed by santea gehawhi general hospital for peg tube care and flushing and to assess her pain control .follow-up :the patient will follow up with dr. chabechird on an out-patient basis .longkend sapshuff , m.d.dictating for :slaineaee s. niet chabechird , m.d.tr :suh / bmotdd :06/23/94td :06/24/94cc :dr. slaineaee s. chabechird , gyn / oncology service dr. longkend sapshuff , gyn / oncology service dr. ilni ni wy titchesluss , gyn / oncology service