record #623244028282463 | mmc | 83968943 | | 032712 | 0/17/1993 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | unsigned | dis | admission date: 11/28/1993 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 3/1/1993discharge diagnosis: idiopathic cardiomyopathy.history of present illness: the patient is a 54 year old hispanicfemale with a history of idiopathicdilated cardiomyopathy for the past ten years. patient has beenmanaged medically , however , recently , the patient's heart failurehas progressed to the point where conventional therapy is unable tosustain her. the patient was admitted in july 1993 with dyspnea andchest pain. at that time , the patient ruled out for myocardialinfarction and was discharged home on exogenous oxygen therapy.patient returned shortly thereafter with shortness of breath andwas begun on intravenous dobutamine. she was subsequentlydischarged home after her heart failure resolved. patient ,however , returned a third time with similar complaints of shortnessof breath and dyspnea and remained in the hospital awaiting a hearttransplant. past medical history: the patient has a history ofnon-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus as well as a history oftreated tuberculosis. past surgical history: patient has ahistory of total abdominal hysterectomy and rightsalpingo-oophorectomy. patient has no known tobacco or ethanolhistory. catheterization on march demonstrated a pulmonarycapillary wedge pressure of 38 with a pulmonary artery pressure of80 systolic/50 diastolic. cardiac index was 1.4 and an echodemonstrated severely dilated left ventricle with an ejectionfraction of between 25 and 30%. current medications: lasix 120 mgp.o. b.i.d. , glucotrol 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. , vasotec 10 mg p.o.b.i.d. , coumadin 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.d. , andtwo liters nasal cannula o2.physical examination: patient was a sickly appearing female whowas short of breath. heent: unremarkable.neck: remarkable for jugular venous distention to the angle of thejaw. cardiac: iii/vi holosystolic murmur appreciated with an s3gallop. abdomen: liver was 13 to 14 cm. otherwise , the abdomenwas soft. extremities: 2+ pitting edema to the mid shin.laboratory examination: bun was 24 , creatinine 1.2 , pt was 16.1 ,ptt was 34 , white count was 8 , hematocrit49% , and digoxin was 1.4. ekg showed a normal sinus rhythm at 110with a left bundle-branch block pattern and first degree av block.chest x-ray revealed cardiomegaly and liver function tests weregrossly normal.hospital course: patient underwent a heart transplant on marchwithout perioperative difficulty. the patientwas transferred to the intensive care unit immediatelypost-operatively and remained there for her first several dayspost-operatively. the patient's early post-operative course wascomplicated by right sided heart dysfunction and elevated papressures. echocardiogram demonstrated normal left ventricularfunction. the patient ruled out for a myocardial infarctionpost-operatively and was managed on dobutamine and inocor. as papressures remained elevated , the patient was switched to milrinoneand her other pressors were weaned off gradually. the patient hadchest tubes left in place for approximately twelve dayspost-operatively at which time the chest tubes were discontinued.patient's swan was removed on post-operative day ten and cvpmonitoring was used to estimate right heart function. thepatient's milrinone was gradually weaned off and the patient's cvpremained in the 12 to 16 mm range. the patient was subsequentlytransferred to the floor where she did well. the patient wasbiopsied twice prior to discharge , both times demonstrating norejection. of note , the patient appeared to develop cyclosporintoxicity early in her post-operative course with rapidly risingcreatinine levels and elevated liver function tests. the patientwas placed on trental 800 mg p.o. t.i.d. and subsequently given aseven day course of okt3 after which time the patient was restartedon her cyclosporin with no ill effect. the patient was noted tohave a left sided pleural effusion that was tapped approximatelytwo and a half weeks into the patient's post-operative period. 400cc of pleural fluid was removed which grew no bacteria out. thepatient's effusion was followed by chest x-ray and was noted againto reaccumulate. approximately one and a half weeks later , a chesttube was placed with the recovery of approximately 700 cc of fluid.this was done with ultrasound guidance. the chest tube remained inplace approximately five days and was subsequently removed. aresidual small left pneumothorax was noted. this pneumothorax wasunchanged over the ensuing three days after chest tube removal andthe patient was discharged home with a stable small leftpneumothorax.disposition: discharge medications: patient is discharged home ondapsone 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , cyclosporin 225 mg p.o.b.i.d. , imuran 25 mg p.o. q.d. , magnesium gluconate 1 gram q.i.d. ,procardia xl 90 mg p.o. q.d. , trental 800 mg p.o. t.i.d. ,prednisone 30 mg p.o. q.d. , humulin nph 18 units subcutaneouslyq.a.m. , lasix 40 mg q.a.m. q.d. , k-dur 40 meq p.o. q.d. , and serax15 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. for agitation. the patient is tofollow-up with the transplant clinic as well as the endocrineclinic and will receive vna nursing care at home for wound checks.dictated by: neil asal , m.d. qn01attending: avery a. sparr , m.d. zv4  jf143/7065batch: 2474 index no. smjun7422d d: 5/30/93t: 9/5/93[report_end]