record #776891912344838 | tmc | 57611498 | | 5249105 | 3/27/2004 12:00:00 am | fever , end stage renal disease | signed | dis | admission date: 8/14/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/2/2004attending: alonzo barton hale m.d.admission diagnosis:bronchitis and volume overload.principal discharge diagnoses:1. end-stage renal disease.2. diabetes.3. bronchitis.4. hypertension.history of present illness:ms. viale is a 71-year-old woman with end-stage renal diseasewho presents after being discharged from two recent admission togara medical center 24 hours after she went torehabilitation with fevers , diffuse body pains , and hypertension.she was admitted from 2/6/2003 to 3/28/2004 for volumeoverload treated to the hemodialysis as well as antibiotics ,vancomycin , gentamicin , and azithromycin for pneumonia. from the5/12/2004 through 1/6/2004 she was readmitted and presentedwith increased lipase , right upper quadrant pain , shortness ofbreath , nausea , and decreased oral intake. she was dialyzed andthe lipase was felt to be elevated from poor renal clearance. anmri was obtained at that time , which revealed no acuteabnormalities. transesophageal echocardiogram was also obtainedat that time because of the prior positive blood culture and itwas negative for vegetation or severe valve disease. a chest ctduring this previous admission showed a resolved right pleuraleffusion and some improved interstitial pulmonary edema.on the day prior to admission , she woke up sick and tired atrehab. she developed a nonproductive cough and some mildpleuritic chest pain. in addition , she experienced some rightupper and right lower quadrant pain , which she had also hadduring her most recent hospitalization. at mamcount un health , her heart rate was 94 , blood pressure 183/81 , andshe was 94% on 2 liters of nasal cannula. she was febrile to102.5 and was experiencing chills. she was brought into theemergency department where she was found to have blood pressureof 134/67. she received 2 mg of morphine approximately a literof normal saline and some tylenol. a ct scan of her abdomenrevealed a fibroid uterus and left kidney cystic lesion.physical examination:her admission physical examination was significant fortemperature of 100.2 , blood pressure of 102/53 , and saturating98% on 2 liters. the patient was mildly anxious. she wasnormocephalic and atraumatic and had surgical pupils bilaterally.her neck was supple and her jugular venous pressure was 8 cm.she had decreased breath sounds throughout and had fine scatteredrales throughout her lung fields. heart was regular rate andrhythm with normal s1 and s2 with a 2/6 systolic ejection murmurat the right upper sternal border without any radiation. herabdomen was obese , soft , nontender , and nondistended with goodbowel sounds. her extremities revealed no clubbing , cyanosis , oredema. she did have a right arm fistula for hemodialysis with agood thrill. neurologically , she was alert and oriented x3and had a steady gait with a walker.laboratory data:her admission laboratory data was significant for a uremiarelated to her end-stage renal disease , normal lfts , cardiacenzymes less than assay , and a white count of 17.2 up from 9.2just two days earlier. her hematocrit is at baseline of 30.1.her ua revealed 2 to 4 white cells , 1+ bacteria , and 8 to 10hyaline casts. chest x-ray revealed cardiomegaly with noeffusions and some mildly prominent pulmonary vasculature. ekgrevealed normal sinus rhythm and t-wave inversions at 5 and 6 aswell as 1 and avr , which are old.hospital course:1. renal: ms. hodnefield was maintained on hemodialysis tuesday ,thursday , and saturdays while in hospital and was followed by therenal service daily. she was maintained on phoslo calciumcarbonate and nephrocaps for optimum mineral balance while ondialysis. her right arm fistula had a good thrill throughout.on her very first day of admission , she became hypertensiveduring dialysis , but had a normal blood pressure again afterreceiving back the ultrafiltration fluid that had been taken off.also of note during her hospital stay , given her fevers andunrevealing infectious workup , an mri was completed with a renalprotocol to evaluate this left renal cyst. the cyst wascomplicated and appeared to have septations. however , it did notenhance and upon review with the radiologist it was deemed veryunlikely that this cyst would represent a renal cell carcinoma.however , her ua did have 1 to 2+ positive blood on repeat in thehospital without a foley. at the time of discharge her urinecytology was pending at the time of discharge.2. infectious disease: given the fact that ms. obarr presentedwith intermittent fevers all the way up to 102 , some mildhypertension associated with dialysis , and previous positiveblood cultures , an infectious disease consult was called. afterextensive infectious disease workup including blood cultures ,urine cultures , abdomen cts , as well as induced sputum , no sourcefor infection was revealed. however , it was felt that ms. molacekmay have had a viral upper respiratory tract infection and/orbronchitis which was not treated. she received a single dose ofvancomycin and gentamicin upon admission for her hypertension andfever , but received no further antibiotics during her hospitalstay. she was afebrile during the last seven days and had astable white count and no left shift. workupfor infectious disease included an hiv test , which was negative.she was ppd negative. her induced sputum was negative forfungus , mycoplasma , and pcp. her abdominal ct revealed noobvious abscess and urine analysis was negative. blood culturesx2 as well as cultures from previous admissions were held forfungal and hacek organisms , all of which were negative.3. pulmonary: ms. altizer 's only stable complaint from herprevious hospital stays has been mild dyspnea. she experienceddyspnea on exertion after walking 10 to 15 feet. a chest ct fromher last admission revealed no interstitial lung disease , nosignificant pulmonary edema , and no infiltrative disease. shehad a set of psp on 8/20/2003 , which revealed a restrictivephysiology , but may not have had sufficient effort. thepulmonary consult was called. of note , the patient had anechocardiogram from 8/30 , which revealed a pulmonary arterysystolic pressure of 59. it was felt that this may have beenspurious as the previous echocardiogram revealed aortic pressurein the 30s. she received a repeat an transthoracicechocardiogram which showed a pulmonary artery systolic pressureof 36% in right atrium. this is her baseline pressure. theprevious pressure was probably artificially elevated because ofvolume overload. this means that it is unlikely that pulmonaryhypertension is causing her shortness of breath. overnight pulseoximetry revealed no desaturations and there is a very lowprobability of sleep apnea despite habitus and a low probabilitybased on her history. she does not report any daytimesomnolence. it is possible that outpatient pulmonary functiontest and sleep studies will be considered if this dyspneacontinues. there was no need for a right heart catheterizationnor was there any need to pursue further imaging to think aboutchronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. by the time shewas discharged and working with pt regularly , ms. lohmann 'sdyspnea was significantly improved. it is still unclear why shewas no dyspneic and may be a combination of deconditioning ,repeated hospitalizations , and will be improved withrehabilitation.4. cardiovascular: ms. pullian is exhibiting no signs orischemia. her ekg showed chronic lateral t-wave inversions. hercardiac enzymes were negative. she was maintained on the babyaspirin as well as beta-blocker throughout her hospital stay.ms. reenders did have a transthoracic echocardiogram which revealedan estimated ejection fraction of 45 to 50% , some mid septal andlateral hypokinesis which was old , some mildly thickened aorticvalve with no aortic insufficiency , mildly thickened mitral valvewith mild mitral regurgitation. her tricuspid valve revealedthere as mild tr and a tricuspid jet of 3 meters per second ,which was translated into a pulmonary artery systolic pressure of36 mmhg right atrial pressure. also , of note she had biatrialenlargement and normal right ventricle size and function. afterthe initial episode of hypertension and hemodialysis , ms. plottswas normotensive throughout the remainder of her hospital stayand was discharged on a beta-blocker as well as ace inhibitor.5. fen/gi: ms. gottschalk 's abdominal pain resolved on day two ofhospitalization and given a negative ct , normal movements , and nofurther abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting , it was felt thatthis may have been related to either due to either viralgastroenteritis or irritable bowel syndrome. the patient wasmaintained on proton pump inhibition and while inhouse had a lowsodium diabetic diet with 1800 calories as well as low potassiumfor her renal care.6. disposition: physical therapy consulted early in ms.crull hospital stay and agreed that she would benefit fromsubacute rehabilitation to get her strength back after thesemultiple hospitalizations. she was given a walker and could walkwith assistance on a rolling walker. unfortunately , her home hasstairs and is ill equipped for such a transition from walker tohome so she will benefit from rehabilitation. ms. shirai wasdischarged in stable condition and will follow up with herprimary care doctor dr. mighty at guam medical center clinic.allergies:1. iv contrast dye.2. penicillins.3. methyldopa.4. prazosin.5. micronase.6. dyazide.7. enalapril.discharge medications:1. aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.2. phoslo 1334 mg p.o. t.i.d.3. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.4. glipizide 5 mg p.o. q.d.5. lisinopril 10 mg p.o. q.d.7. senna 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d.8. simvastatin 40 mg p.o. q.h.s.9. tessalon perles 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. cough.10. nephrocaps 1 tablet p.o. q.d.11. calcium carbonate 1000 mg p.o. q.h.s.12. nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d.13. toprol xl 50 mg p.o. q.d. , hold if systolic blood pressureless than 100 or heart rate less than 55. also hold on themornings of dialysis until after dialysis.follow up:ms. dirks with follow up with dr. clark ifeanyi at northale memorial hospital and that can be reached at055-291-1565.she will resume dialysis at the piwell aee kent medical center under the care of dr. clark braegelmann .escription document: 8-8376005 emssten teldictated by: femat , robertattending: abe jae miraflores , m.d. kq1dictation id 2064132d: 6/10/04t: 6/10/04[report_end]