record date: 2082-03-08  march 8, 2082 francis xayarath, m.d. integra health center derry streetla grulla, me 21614 re:branch, earnestmrn:53023691 dear dr. xayarath: your patient earnest branch came in the office today for a follow up visit.  mr. branch is now two years out from a right femoral-tibial bypass and nine months out from a left femoral-tibial bypass with subsequent transmetatarsal amputation of the left foot and split-thickness skin grafting.  over the last several months, he has been undergoing dressing changes to remaining, small, superficial, open wounds on the dorsum of the left foot.  over the last one to two weeks, he began to note the development of a new area of dark skin on the lateral aspect of the left foot and recently has noted some drainage.  he denies any fevers.  in addition and of note, he complains of recent onset of pain in the right eye and has an appointment at the ophthalmology clinic immediately following his visit with us.  he last underwent vascular lab studies in september at which time both lower extremity bypass grafts were widely patent and without stenoses. on examination today, there are strong, easily palpable pulses over both lower extremity bypass grafts.  the right foot is warm and without any new ischemic skin changes or lesions.  on examination of the left foot, there is a large area of full-thickness skin necrosis on the lateral aspect of the foot where there had never been any previous open wounds.  this area encompasses a significant proportion of the lateral aspect of the foot from the end of the transmetatarsal incision to the proximal mid foot.  on probing, purulent material drains from the margins and there is obvious significant sepsis.  the foot itself is warm and there is a good posterior tibial doppler signal at the ankle. unfortunately, mr. branch has developed a new, large wound on the left foot which likely began as a pressure (decubitus) ulceration due to his severe neuropathy.  this is now complicated by significant local sepsis and there is a large area of soft tissue loss on the foot.  he will require urgent admission and operative debridement today.  in addition, given the extent of the problem, it is likely that he will ultimately come to below-knee amputation in the end.  immediately following his visit to the ophthalmology clinic, he will be admitted to the  re:branch, earnestmrn:530236913-8-82page 2   hospital with the hopes of performing debridement and drainage later today.  i will certainly continue to keep you apprised of his progress. sincerely,    luis j. nicholas, m.d.  rh:ku:0156/dd:3-8-82/dt:3-14-82     not reviewed by attending physician