531161593 | omc | 87610063 | | 6103279 | 3/21/2004 12:00:00 am | sigmoid stricture | signed | dis | admission date: 3/21/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/3/2004attending: kennith gulling mdservice:hasdhfoar service.principal diagnosis:colonic stricture status post sigmoid colectomy.list of problems and other diagnoses:1. history of diverticulitis.2. history of questionable inflammatory bowel disease.3. gerd.4. depression and chronic pain.5. history of breast cancer.past surgical history:1. sigmoid colectomy in 2003.2. right breast lumpectomy in 1998.3. multiple port-a-cath placements.4. right axillary lymph node dissection in 1998.5. history of endoscopy.hospital course:this is a 41-year-old female with a history of diverticulitis andquestionable inflammatory bowel disease with a known colonicstricture since 4/5 the patient has had attempted to dilatationwithout success. the patient has also recent historyof ribbon like stools and complains of difficulty with bladderfunction as well as a sense of urgency to urinate. her pastmedical history is significant for diverticulitis , questionableinflammatory bowel disease , gerd , depression , chronic pain , andhistory of breast cancer. her surgical history is significantfor sigmoid colectomy in 2003 , right breast lumpectomy , axillarylymph node dissection in 1998 , as well as multiple port-a-cathplacements , and endoscopic treatment. she was admitted on7/20/04 and taken to the or for a sigmoid colectomy; the procedurewas complicated by a left ureteral injury for which urology wasconsulted intraoperatively. urology placed a left ureteral stentintraoperatively and made recommendations to maintain stent for atotal of six weeks after which time it would be removed on anoutpatient basis ( dr. mahaffy will be following this case ). inaddition , they recommended maintaining foley for five days. theebl during the case was 2500 cc necessitating transfusion of 4units of packed red blood cells. she was extubated and taken tothe pacu in stable condition with an epidural in place onperioperative antibiotics of clindamycin and with ng tube inplace. onpostoperative day #1 , it was noted that the patient wasincreasingly becoming confused and anxious as well as remainedtachycardic despite what was thought to be adequate volumeresuscitation and she was transferred to the unit at this point.more specifically , in addition to being tachycardic later thatday on postoperative day #1 , she became tachypneic with notedhypoxemia and mental status changes in need of intubation. ofnote , the patient was saturating at 96% on 100% oxygen viafacemask. it is also notable that the patient in the 24-hourperioperative window received 14-liter of fluid resuscitation.the night of postoperative day #1 , as mentioned earlier , thepatient was increasingly agitated before she was transferred tothe unit and although discontinued her ng tube it was thought atthis time that she may have aspirated. she also removed hersupplemental oxygen and was noted to have saturations in the 85%range with tachycardia in the 140 range. a pe protocol ct wasobtained that was negative for emboli or dvt but was positive forright upper lobe posterior segment consolidation that wasconsistent with an aspiration event. she was subsequentlytransferred on the night of postoperative day #1 to the icu ,intubated , and had a right ij central line placed. overnight ,between postoperative day #1 and postoperative day #2 , her bloodpressure would drop requiring multiple fluid boluses in additionto the administration of an additional unit of packed red bloodcells for a hematocrit of 23. she also received albumin. ofnote , the ct also did not reveal any evidence of acute bleed;however , this was a noncontrast study. she was placed on versedand propofol , intubated in the unit with a fentanyl patch ,remained tachycardic , the origin of which was unclear. it wasthought initially that there was some type of narcotic controlthat may be responsible for this tachycardia. however , it wasalso speculated that she may be bleeding from an unknown source.she was intubated , npo , ng tube in place with iv fluidresuscitation , foley in place per urology as noted above , on subqheparin with close monitoring of the hematocrit with transfusionsto be given as necessary placed on a triple regimen ofclindamycin , levo , and flagyl. on postoperative day #3 , thepatient in the unit with hypertension , anemia , tachycardia , thepatient's hematocrit was still 23 and she received 2 additionalunits of red blood cells and hematocrit rose to 30 at this time.she was poorly responsive on postoperative day #3 and it wasthought that she had better be weaned off of versed whichhappened to be replaced with haloperidol. in addition , clonidinewas added to her regimen as well as lopressor secondary to hertachycardia. there was close examination of her mental statusduring this time. on postoperative day #4 , the patient was stillpersistently tachycardic and hypertensive. jp was discontinuedon the day and , in addition , as noted above , haldol and clonidinewere added to her regimen. she continued to be agitated andthere was a question raised then that there was an unclearhistory that was not previously diagnosed of alcoholism and thismay have been an alcohol withdrawal phenomenon. so , her versedactually was increased then for a questionable alcohol withdrawaland she was given multivitamins , thiamine and folate and inaddition for her hypertension lopressor 5 q.4 was continued. shewas still intubated with goals of weaning off ventilation , npo ,ng tube to low suction , the question of tpn was raised , levo andflagyl for aspiration pneumonia which would be continued for10-14 days. by postoperative day #5 , it was clear that this wasa problem of drug or alcohol withdrawal at least that was whatwas thought. her neuro regimen was changing at this time withvarious measures using versed , then using ativan , and apresodexto changing her fentanyl regimen as well as adding morphine toher regimen p.r.n. all with goals of increasing the generalrelaxation. psych was consulted on postoperative day #5 andconcluded that this woman had a history of polysubstance abuse ,alcohol and likely opiates , and chronic abdominal pain due tostricture which probably was related to her opioid abuse; ibelieve the delirium was likely multifactorial in etiology ,postoperative delirium that was notable for significant fluidshifts , there was the question of aspiration pneumonia inaddition to possible opiate and alcohol withdrawal. theyrecommended starting with zyprexa if the patient was sedated inthe a.m. with a dc a.m. dose of zyprexa and just use it in theevening and agreed to taper off the versed minimizing the use ofopiates as tolerated by the patient and encouraged the family toreorient the patient to keep her awake during the day. onpostoperative day #6 , her mental status was gradually clearing.patient goal was to wean off sedation for a possible extubation.her blood pressure as well as heart rate were stabilizing andtube feeds were also started at this point with multivitamins andmineral replacement. in addition , urine output continued to begood. her hematocrit was stable. her cultures were at thispoint negative , but the antibiotic flagyl-levo regimen wascontinued. of note , her stoma would gradually start to producefluid and her incision during this leg of her course remainedclean , dry , and intact. on postoperative day #6 , she was alsoconsulted by addiction psychiatry who concluded similar resultsto recommendations concluded earlier. they would agree with thezyprexa and also recommended restarting ativan , as i said ,additionally agreeing with the taper off of the versed with theuse of ativan only for cases of agitation and additionallyrecommended to the discontinue the celexa and buspar the patientwas on until the delirium cleared to avoid a polypharmacy. ofnote , psyche was able to speak with the husband who confirmed thepatient's longstanding history of alcohol dependence that likelypredated the 10 years that he had known her. it is important tonote that the patient was consuming approximately a quart ofvodka a day as well as peppermint schnapps daily up until hersurgery last april . after that procedure , she continued todrink presumably about 3 beers a day. however , the husband sincehe was working so much was unable to really adequately guage justhow much alcohol she was drinking. in addition , she was noted tohave , this is per the husband , undergone multiple detoxes attreatment facilities for alcohol dependence and believed that shehad experience withdrawal seizures in the past. on postoperativeday #7 , the patient's mental status was gradually improving withweaning off of her versed with iv ativan and low doses astolerated and p.r.n. she , in addition , this day was toleratingher tube feeds; however , she did pull her ng tube again. her foleywas taken out at this time. the ureteral injury believed to beresolved at this point , continued on her levo and flagyl withquestion of whether or not to stop her antibiotic regimen. onpostoperative day #8 , mental status continued to improve and shewas started on sips which she tolerated well. her iv was heplocked and she was seen fit to be transferred to the floor. ofnote , also on postoperative day #8 , the patient had some lowblood pressure which was treated with volume resuscitation in theform of normal saline boluses that stabilized right after hertransfer to the floor. on postoperative day #9 , it was notedthat the patient had some red stool in the ostomy bag. thepatient was hemodynamically stable this was afternoon ofpostoperative day #9. her labs were checked , cbc , and found tobe within normal limits and her ibuprofen which she was takingwas discontinued. on postoperative day #10 , with mental statusimproving greatly , the patient had her central line discontinued.over the last couple of days , she had made attempts to walk andwas walking with pt. her diet over the last couple of days hadbeen advanced without any problems and she was converted to ahouse diet on postoperative day #10. on postoperative day #11 ,her mental status seemingly completely resolved on regular diet ,out of bed. it was noted though that she had some erythema ofthe mid portion of her wound , three staples were removed fromthis portion of the wound and serosanguinous exudate wasexpressed , minimal amount of fluid. the wound was explored andthere was found to be no fascial defect. cultures were taken atthis time and the wound was packed with wet-to-dry dressing withinstructions given to the patient and nursing for wet-to-drydressing changes t.i.d. on postoperative day #11 , the patientwas seen fit to be discharged home. her mental status hadcompletely resolved. she was afebrile and hemodynamicallystable , tolerating a regular diet , and fully ambulatory. she wasto be discharged home with vna services. medicine team that hadbeen seeing her did agree that she needed to contact herpsychiatrist to provide an update of the current admission toupdate her on her medical regimen inhouse and she is to schedulean appointment to follow up with her psychiatrist. the medicineteam also recommended continuing her psyche medications she wastaking prior to admission that includes celexa 4 mg q.d. , buspar10 mg t.i.d. , nortriptyline will be started by her psychiatrist.also recommended to continue ativan taper as followed with 1 mgt.i.d. today , 1 mg b.i.d. the next day which would have been5/29 , and then 1 mg q.a.m. on wednesday 6/26, and then stoptaking the ativan with instructions of no refills on the ativan.the medicine team also strongly enforced , reminded her not todrink while taking the ativan.allergies and medicine reactions:iv keflex gives her a rash.operations and procedures:on 7/20/04 , the patient received a sigmoid colectomy , adiverting ostomy.hospital course by problem:see hpi.complications:1. intraoperative complication of left ureteral injury.2. alcohol opiate withdrawal.discharge medications:buspar 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. , fentanyl patch 100 mcg/h. and topicalq.72h. , folic acid 1 mg p.o. q.d. , dilaudid 2-4 mg p.o. q.4h.p.r.n. pain , thiamine , hcl 100 mg p.o. q.d. , celexa 40 mg p.o.q.d. , ativan with a tapered dose of 1 mg p.o. b.i.d. to betapered on the following day to 1 mg p.o. q.d. and then on day #3to just 1 mg in the a.m. , protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d. , neurontin 600mg p.o. t.i.d. , and clonodine 0.2 mg p.o. q. weekly.disposition:home with vna services.escription document: 1-9452678 emssten teldictated by: janczak , joeyattending: macomber , geraldodictation id 6134283d: 3/18/04t: 2/5/04