record #652612148900251 | emhahs | 69939492 | | 0604964 | 1/3/2003 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 3/17/2003 report status: signeddischarge date:chief complaint: at the time of admission , altered mental status.history of present illness: patient is a 73-year-old man with ahistory of prior delirious episodes aswell as a history of chronic diarrhea who , on the night beforeadmission , was noted to no longer recognize people at home and tobe confused about his location. on the morning of admission , thepatient had had intractable explosive diarrhea. he does have ahistory of chronic diarrhea but the diarrhea on the date ofadmission was significantly more severe than usual.review of systems: the patient denied any chest pain , nausea ,vomiting , urinary tract infection , or decreasein his p.o. intake.past medical history: significant for congestive heart failurewith an ejection fraction of 50% , coronaryartery disease status post five vessel coronary artery bypass graftin march 2002 , myelodysplastic syndrome , peripheral vasculardisease , gastrointestinal bleed status post right colectomy ,prostate cancer status post transurethral resection of theprostate , and macular degeneration.current medications: at the time of admission included opiumtincture , aspirin , lomotil , lasix , ditropan ,lopid , zocor , atapryl , and iron.physical examination: at the time of admission , patient wasafebrile , his heart rate was 60 , his bloodpressure was 145/68 , and he was saturating 95% on room air. hisphysical examination was notable for a jugular venous pressure at 5cm , moist mucous membranes , and soft , nontender , nondistendedabdominal examination. on rectal examination , the patient wasnoted to have guaiac positive brown stool.laboratory examination: head ct at the time of admission wasnegative for any acute change , chest x-raywas negative for any evidence of pneumonia , and the patient's ekgwas reviewed and shown to be without change from prior studies.hospital course: 1. neurological - the patient's mental statusimproved quickly on admission. as noted above ,his head ct was negative. it was thought that his mental statuschanges were likely secondary to dehydration and were resolved atthe time of discharge.2. pulmonary - during resuscitation of the patient's dehydration ,he developed an o2 requirement although chest x-ray did not showany evidence for fluid overload or infiltrates. occasional wheezeswere appreciated on examination and the patient's symptoms improvedsignificantly with occasional nebulizer treatments of albuterol andatrovent. at the time of discharge , the patient was oxygenatingwell.3. cardiovascular - there were no acute cardiac issues during thishospitalization. patient's losartan was held at admission givenhis acute renal failure but other outpatient medications werecontinued.4. hematology - the patient had a history of mds and was a patientof dr. boivin . at the time of admission , the patient's hematocritdropped 10 points but was thought to be likely due to hydration.since that time , the patient's hematocrit has remained stable at35.5. infectious disease - at the time of admission , the patient'sblood cultures , urine cultures , and stool cultures were allnegative. chest x-ray on march , 2003 was clear. it was feltthat the most likely etiology of his acute worsening of hisdiarrhea was viral gastroenteritis. he also did receive a 7-daycourse of levofloxacin and flagyl for empiric abdominal coverage.the patient remained afebrile since the time of his antibiotics.6. gastrointestinal - the patient is status post righthemicolectomy. he has a long history of diarrhea and presented tothis admission with explosive diarrhea and guaiac positive brownstool. at the time of admission , kaopectate and lomotil werestarted. on august , 2003 , he was noted to have increaseddistention but a kub was negative at that time for partialobstruction or impaction. there were concerns that the patient'sabdominal symptoms might be secondary to ischemia so an mri wasobtained which showed proximal disease in the sma , ima , and celiacbut overall with good distal flow. an abdominal ct was obtainedwhich showed a thick small bowel and dilated gallbladder withstranding but no evidence for ischemia. gastrointestinalconsultation was obtained and on june , 2003 , andesophagogastroduodenoscopy was performed which revealed grade ivgastritis. as a result , the patient was started on nexium 40b.i.d.7. renal - the patient has a history of chronic renalinsufficiency. the entire hospitalization , his bun was in thefifties with a creatinine of 2.2. his fena was less than 0.1% andthe patient was thought to be extremely intervascularly dry. withgentle hydration , the patient's creatinine eventually improved to1.9 at the time of this dictation.operations and procedures: included esophagogastroduodenoscopyrevealing gastritis as discussed above.disposition: diet includes that the patient is discharged on afull p.o. diet. he was also instructed to supplementhis diet with high nutrition boost shakes. nutrition followed thepatient closely during the admission and thought that he would needclose follow-up as an outpatient for his nutrition status.discharge medications: will be dictated in an addendum to thisdischarge summary.follow-up: the patient will follow-up with dr. venzor followingdischarge.dictated by: lucio man grams , m.d. vm675attending: erasmo n. mathur , m.d. ni4  og097/562852batch: 0836 index no. ouhr0y5gn5 d: 3/28/03t: 3/28/03[report_end]