633390028 | lchh | 00682171 | | 0305075 | 10/26/2006 12:00:00 am | pneumonia | unsigned | dis | admission date: 10/11/2006 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 7/25/2006attending: soltani , leon m.d.service:general medicine service riprincipal diagnosis:methicillin sensitive staphylococcus aureus bacteremia.other problems and conditions treated:lgl nka lymphoma with pancytopenia , type ii diabetes ,hypertension , chronic renal insufficiency , genital herpes , piccline infection , nonsustained ventricular tachycardia.brief history of present illness:ms. seligson is an 88-year-old italian-speaking female with a historyof large granulocytic lymphocyte lymphoma complicated bypancytopenia with chronic transfusion requirement. she also hasa history of type ii diabetes , chronic renal insufficiency , and arecent herpes infection undergoing treatment with famciclovir whopresented with fever , chills , cough , and decreased p.o. intakefrom her nursing home with moderate hypotension to systolicpressures of 80 at the nursing home as well as oxygen saturationof 91% and on admission was found to have fever withoutneutropenia later diagnosed with an mssa bacteremia and acomponent of acute on chronic renal failure.allergies:fentanyl which caused gi intolerance , lisinopril which causescough , morphine which causes vomiting and percocet which causesnausea and vomiting.admission physical examination:temperature of 98.4 , a pulse of 100 , a bp of 143/64 with arespiratory rate of 20 with a o2 saturation of 100% on 3 liters.this is post 4 liters of iv fluids and six packs of platelets inthe emergency department at which point she had presented with afever to 101 with a initial systolic pressure of 146 over adiastolic of 91 that had dropped to 100 systolic. in the ed , shealso received vancomycin , levofloxacin , flagyl , and ceftazidimeas well her picc line which is present in the right upperextremity was pulled. a physical examination on admission wassignificant for tachycardia with an otherwise normal cardiac examwithout murmurs. her respiratory exam showed decreased airmovement bilaterally with expiratory wheezes , however , noevidence of focal decrease in breath sounds. the abdominal examwas benign and the extremities showed erythema and induration atthe right former picc site.admission laboratory:significant for sodium of 131 , potassium of 4.9 , bicarbonate of20 , bun and creatinine of 63/2.9 up from her baseline of 2. herwhite blood cell count on admission was 4.5 with a hematocrit of23.7 and platelets of 20.urinalysis showed 3+ protein , 1+ blood , 1+ bacteria and 2-4 whiteblood cells. an admission troponin was drawn and that was lessthan assay.her ekg showed a sinus tachycardia with poor r-wave progressionand t-wave flattening in iii and avf. the chest x-ray wasperformed on admission that showed right-sided subsegmentalbasilar atelectasis with low lung volumes and a large cardiacsilhouette , but no definitive infiltrate or fusion.operations and procedures:1/26/06: picc line placement in the left upper extremity.1/26/06: cat scan of the chest.2/3/06: right upper extremity doppler ultrasound and chestx-rays were performed on 6/20/06 , 03 .hospital course by problem:id: based on blood culture results the patient had an mssabacteremia. she was initially treated with broad-spectrumantibiotics in the emergency department , however , this regimenwas tapered to initially include vancomycin as a single agent andthen further tapered to naphthalene but this was also taperedfinally to a regimen of ancef dosed at 0.5 g iv q. 12h. her lastpositive blood culture was on 2/10/06 and the ancef should becontinued for 14 days thereafter setting an end date ofapproximately 5/2/06 .  she completed her course of famciclovirduring hospitalization and had no further evidence of genitalherpetic infection as well the urine culture and urinalysis datadescribed above showed yeast only and a foley that had beenintermittently placed during the ed stay was discontinued , andthe patient remained asymptomatic for any further urinary tractinfection.cardiovascular: although the patient initially had transienthypertension believed to be secondary to infection and mildhypovolemia in the setting of diuretics and poor p.o. intakeprior to coming in. she was electively fluid resuscitated andactually went into mild hypervolemia as evidenced by chest x-rayfindings consistent with pulmonary edema initially. she wasthereafter diuresed as needed. during her hospitalization as herhemodynamic status stabilized her home blood pressure regimen wasreinstated. however , the following substitutions were made. thehydrochlorothiazide was substituted with lasix as her chronicrenal insufficiency dictated as well as her doxazosin dose wasincreased from 2 mg per day to 4 mg per day for better bloodpressure control. her metoprolol dose , which was initially 100mg twice a day was changed the 62.5 mg four times daily , whichcan be converted as her blood pressure normalizes. captopril andarbs were not used due to her history of allergies but additionalantihypertensive medications may be indicated if her pressureremains elevated. during the hospitalization , she had evidenceof nonsustained ventricular tachycardia asymptomatic ontelemetry , however , with alteration of the dose of lopressorthere was no further evidence of this. at the time of discharge ,she was euvolemic from a pulmonary standpoint with mild lowerextremity edema. he discharge weight is 71.1 kilograms and herdaily weights should be followed and the lasix titrated to remaineuvolemic. there was no evidence of ischemia during thehospitalization.pulmonary: although she presented with some shortness of breathand cough she did not continue to have any shortness of breath orcough during the hospitalization. due to complaints of rightposterior rib pain during the hospitalization without evidence ofany skin or soft tissue abnormalities she underwent a ct scan ofthe chest on 5/5/06 , which showed a small right middle lobearea of consolidation favoring atelectasis but not impossible torepresent an early pneumonia. they also had tiny pleuraleffusions bilaterally as well as a tiny pericardial effusion , asmall calcified right apical node , and an enlarged left thyroidlobe with extension below the sternum. there was no evidence ofrib fracture or soft tissue abnormality on this cat scan in thearea of concern. the pain caused by this symptom , which is stillunclear was treated with lidoderm patch as well as tylenol 650 mgp.o. q. 6h. standing with only modest relief. other medicationsincluding other narcotics and nsaids were not used given herhistory of allergies as well as her thrombocytopenia. however ,these can be further evaluated in the outpatient setting.hematology/oncology: the patient has a history of lgl nklymphoma. there is no inpatient treatment for this disease;however , she received transfusions of packed red blood cells forher hematocrit less than 22 and platelet scales were set as 10.she also received gcsf during her hospitalization and shouldreceive her neulasta in the outpatient setting. prior todischarge a left upper extremity picc line was placed on 5/5/06and confirmed on chest x-ray with its tip projecting over thesuperior vena cava.renal: the patient has a history of chronic renal insufficiencywith a component of acute renal failure at the time of admissionas her baseline creatinine increased from 2 to 2.9 , however , hercreatinine returned to her baseline with iv hydration initiallyand has remained at 1.9-2 stably prior to discharge.endocrine: this patient has a history of type ii diabetesinitially managed on glucotrol in the outpatient setting. shewas placed on nph twice daily in the hospital and will bedischarged on 10 units twice daily with a insulin aspartatesliding scale prior to meals. her blood glucose is not optimallycontrolled but more aggressive attempts to control her glucoseresulted in symptomatic hypoglycemia , therefore it was felt bestto air on the side of mildly elevated blood glucoses in the rangeof 150 to the low 200s in order to avoid transient hypoglycemia.the incidental finding of the left thyroid lobe enlargement onthe ct of the chest should be evaluated in the outpatient settingand this may be done in collaboration with the endocrine service ,however , the projection to the retrosternal space may precludemost evaluation.the patient was followed by physical therapy during thehospitalization and will continue to have physical therapy in theoutpatient setting. there were no complications during thehospitalization. her physical examination at the time ofdischarge reveals a temperature of 97.2 , heart rate of 71-93 , ablood pressure of 130-150/57-80 , respiratory rate 20 , o2saturation of 96%-99% on room air with a lung exam showingminimal bibasilar crackles. a cardiac exam with regular rate andrhythm , s1 , s2 , no murmurs and abdominal exam showing obeseabdomen with ventral hernia but otherwise benign and lowerextremities with 1+ edema and nontender. a picc line in the leftupper extremity and no erythema in the right upper extremity ,however , resolving induration and minimal tenderness. herfingerstick glucose on the a.m. of discharge was 91. herdischarge labs show a potassium of 4.2 , sodium of 136 , creatinineof 2 , magnesium of 1.7 , which is repleted. a white blood cellcount of 1 , hematocrit of 22.5 , platelets of 13 with 1% polys ,86% lymphs , and 4% monocytes.discharge medications:tylenol 650 mg by mouth every six hours. this should becontinued standing until her right chest wall pain diminishes ,ben-gay topical apply twice daily to back/right flank asdirected , ancef 0.5 g iv q. 12h. should be continued until5/2/06 , colace 100 mg by mouth twice daily , lasix 40 mg bymouth daily , insulin nph 10 units subcutaneous b.i.d. , milk ofmagnesia 30 ml by mouth daily as needed for constipation ,lopressor 62.5 mg by mouth four times daily , doxazosin 4 mg bymouth daily , lidoderm 5% patch may be applied daily as needed forpain and it must have a 12 off period during the application ,insulin aspartate sliding scale pre-meal , maalox tablets ,spectazole one to two tablets by mouth every six hours as neededfor upset stomach and protonix 40 mg by mouth daily.she will be discharged to the worth ri and thefinal results of the ct of the chest should be followed up. dr.bernard winge , her primary oncologist , has been notified of herdischarge and will continue to follow her in the outpatientsetting. the patient is full code and her healthcare proxy isrufus kelderman , her son , at 468-946-1419.escription document: 7-7676444 emssten teldictated by: pouncey , malcolmattending: buttler , devindictation id 4941901d: 3/25/06t: 3/25/06