record #688010533540159 | vh | 39190028 | | 831989 | 4/2/1998 12:00:00 am | pneumonia | signed | dis | admission date: 2/28/1998 report status: signeddischarge date: 7/14/1998principal diagnosis: community acquired pneumonia.problem list: 1 ) community acquired pneumonia.2 ) history of myocardial infarction.3 ) non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus.4 ) recent diagnosis of sleep apnea.history of present illness: the patient is a 65 year-old malewhose past medical history issignificant for myocardial infarction in 1996 without residualangina , non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , and a recentdiagnosis of sleep apnea. he was in his usual state of healthuntil three days prior to admission when he began to develop acough productive occasionally of yellow sputum , dyspnea on exertionand temperatures to 102 degrees. one day prior to admission , hewent to his primary healthcare provider where he was diagnosed withpneumonia and given erythromycin and ciprofloxacin withoutimprovement. the following day , he went back to his primary careprovider and was given cough syrup with codeine , but without reliefand through the course of that day , he developed increasingshortness of breath , chills and diaphoresis and so he presented tothe emergency room. in the emergency room , he had a temperature of100 degrees with room air oxygen saturations between 90% and 95%.he was cultured and a chest x-ray was taken which showed a rightmiddle lobe infiltrate and therefore , he was admitted with acommunity acquired pneumonia resistant to outpatient management.past medical history: as above.physical examination: vital signs: temperature 100.1 degrees ,blood pressure 130/80 , heart rate 60 , oxygensaturation 99% on three liters nasal cannula. his heentexamination was unremarkable. his lung examination revealedrhonchorous breath sounds throughout with decreased breath soundsat his bases , right greater than left. he also had diffuseinspiratory and expiratory wheezes. his cardiac examinationrevealed a regular rate and rhythm , s1 and s2 , no murmurs , gallopsor rubs. the abdominal examination was benign. his extremitiesrevealed no edema. his neurological examination was non-focal.laboratory: his laboratory studies were notable for a chem-7 thatwas within normal limits. his cbc revealed a whiteblood cell count of 7.3 with a hematocrit of 33.5 and a plateletcount of 130. his ekg showed normal sinus rhythm at 60 with leftatrial enlargement. there were no ischemic changes. his chestx-ray revealed diffuse infiltrates bilaterally with a more focalarea of consolidation in the right middle lobe.hospital course: the patient is a 65 year-old male with diabetesmellitus , coronary artery disease and sleep apneawho was admitted with a community acquired pneumonia who had failedoutpatient management. he was initially started on intravenouscefuroxime and azithromycin for likely community acquired bacterialpathogens and atypical organisms. he was cultured and sputums wereobtained , however no organisms were ever isolated throughout hishospital course. on hospital day number two , he developedincreasing shortness of breath with oxygen saturations of roughly86% on six liters. at this time , his lung examination was notablefor marked increase in the inspiratory and expiratory wheezes withdecreased air movements. the rest of his examination at this timeincluding the cardiac examination was unremarkable. this event wasfelt to be bronchospasm due to airway inflammation and he wastreated with numerous albuterol nebulizers and intravenous lasix onwhich his oxygenation gradually improved to 96% on six liters.because of the concern of reactive airway disease and perhapsworsening pneumonia , he was at this time switched to legionelladoses of azithromycin and was started on aggressive nebulizertreatments. however , at this time , the possibility of flashpulmonary edema causing cardiac problems was also raised. however ,it was noted at this time that there was no clear precipitant foran episode of flash pulmonary edema and that his blood pressure wasat baseline. his heart rate was at 70 and he had not becomeobviously fluid overloaded. nonetheless , he received a cardiacwork-up which concluded that he was being ruled out for amyocardial infarction and the following day , he received anechocardiogram which revealed an ejection fraction of 58% withapical inferior and inferoseptal akinesis. there was no markedleft ventricular hypertrophy. therefore , it was thought unlikelythat flash pulmonary edema had significantly contributed to hishypoxia and he was subsequently treated solely for severe communityacquired pneumonia with a large bronchospastic component. he wastherefore continued on cefuroxime and azithromycin with gradualresolution of his fevers and a significant improvement in his airmovement and his pulmonary examination. two weeks prior to thisadmission , he was started on a prednisone taper and subsequentunderwent marked improvement in his air movement and in the degreeof bronchospasm. therefore , he was discharged home on thefollowing medications.medications on discharge: 1 ) biaxin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. times twoday to complete a long course foratypical coverage. 2 ) albuterol inhaler 2 puffs q.i.d. p.r.n.shortness of breath. 3 ) enteric coated aspirin. 4 ) glyburide 5mg p.o. q. day. 5 ) lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. 6 ) prednisonetaper. 7 ) timoptic one drop o.u. q. pm. 8 ) cardura one p.o. q.day.condition on discharge: the patient was discharged in stablecondition.follow-up: the patient is to follow-up with his primary careprovider. we have also asked him to follow-up on twolaboratory abnormalities which came back through hishospitalization and he was noted to have a microcytic anemia and hehad iron studies sent which revealed an iron of 16 and a tibc of241. his primary care provider is aware of this and will follow-upon this as an outpatient.disposition: the patient was discharged to home.dictated by: dylan virts , m.d. na84attending: king q. lanthier , m.d. pd63je822/5366batch: 68128 index no. qyzdqufu7 d: 0/15/98t: 1/3/98[report_end]