record #945930474623594 | dmc | 08297283 | | 1147674 | 4/3/2006 12:00:00 am | shortness of breath | signed | dis | admission date: 7/24/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 7/10/2006attending: schoenfeldt , henry m.d.chief complaint:the patient was admitted for a chief complaint of abdominal pain.brief history of present illness:this is a 70-year-old female with a history of chf , nonischemichypertension , diverticulosis , complaining of two days ofpressure-like abdominal pain starting suddenly on the morning of7/13/06 . she had nausea , gas , with no vomiting , pain throughentire abdomen , new diarrhea felt like water in her belly ,complained of tachypnea with bowel movements , no bright red bloodper rectum. she had occasional dark stools , none on the day ofadmission. she was currently getting better. subjective feversat home. she had bowel movement daily. she has a history ofconstipation with no bowel movement on day of admission. she hadno dysuria. she also has complained of a cough for two days andshe had blood-tinged sputum. she had ecg in the past.significantly her aunt died of tuberculosis 15 years ago. shehad right breast pain with cough. she had no pleuritic pain. nonight sweats. she has baseline three-pillow orthopnea. she hadno weightgain over the last week and she had increased leg pain. she iscompliant with her medications and she complains of anxiety sincebeing sick. she eats daily. she has had no vaginal bleeding.no dysphagia.past medical history:significant for chf. she had a echo in 6/25 , which showed an efof 50%-55%. she has severe tricuspid regurgitation. she haslvh. she had a catheterization in 2001 that showed no evidenceof coronary artery disease. she has atrial fibrillation that israte controlled and she has hypertension , history of hypothyroidsecondary to amiodarone. she is obese. she is status postbilateral knee replacements at the elmrald hospital medical centerin 1993 and 1994. this was done for osteoarthritis. she has ahistory of anxiety , pvd , diverticulosis status post partialcolectomy in 1997 also done at the nicloud hospital . past surgical history:significant for bilateral total knee replacements and the colonresections.allergies:she is allergic to no known drugs.medications at home:xanax 1.5 mg q.a.m. , zoloft 50 mg q.a.m. , coumadin 2 mg q.p.m. ,cozaar 15 mg daily , atenolol 40 mg daily , lasix 40 mg daily ,protonix 20 mg daily , and percocet p.r.n. for pain.social history:she lives alone divorced. she smoked for 20 years ago and quit20 years ago. she does not use illicit drugs.physical examination:upon admission here , physical exam was significant for that shewas afebrile , pulse was 93 , blood pressure of 111/77 , respiratoryrate of 16 , she was satting well on 4 l nasal cannula started at96% with 2 l nasal cannula. in general , she was anxious ,tearful , obese , and does not look ill. heent: she was perrl.her op was clear. she had no thyroid enlargement. her jvp was11 cm , although it was difficult to assess. with regard to hercardiovascular status , she was tacky. she had regular rate.there was no s3-s4 appreciated. she had normal s1-s2 and therewere no murmurs appreciated. her chest exam was significant fordiffuse wheezing on both inspiratory and expiratory movements.she had no rales or rhonchi. her abdominal exam was significantfor very obese midline scar. she is diffusely mildly tender withno peritoneal signs. no palpable abdominal aorta. she had nobruits. extremities: she has positive venostasis signs and notraces of edema. neurological exam: she is alert and orientedx3 and cranial nerves ii through xii were grossly intact. herstool is guaiac negative in the emergency room.her ekg was significant for multiple beats of ectopy and ontelemetry she was found to be in atrial fibrillation with therate in 80s to 90s with multiple runs of five to six beats of vtach and quite a bit of ectopy. this has been described atmultiple previous visits while in the hospital by systems.assessment was that this is a 70-year-old female with nononischemic chf presenting with diffuse symptoms including cough ,shortness of breath , abdominal pain , and anxiety. her exam wasconsistent with volume overload and possibly cardiac asthma. nohistory of copd or history of asthma or patient frequentwheezing. trigger for exacerbation could be bronchitis versusabdominal process.hospital course by systems:with regard to her cardiovascular status , pump , she was volumeoverloaded per the physical exam. she was diuresed to her dryweight. with regards to her rhythm , she was rate controlled withbeta-blocker now well controlled. no evidence of currentischemia , cardiac enzymes were negative. pulmonary status: shehas stacked nebs with levobuterol , prednisone given in theemergency room. she was also given a course of azithromycin.her sputum and gram stain culture was negative. with regard toher abdominal complaints: her belly pain was of unclearetiology. she had a negative abdominal ct question constipation.no evidence of aaa on abdominal ct. bowel moves regular. shewas provided with a ppi inhouse. all stools were negative forold blood. with regard to her psychiatric condition , she hasanxiety. this was treated with zantac and p.r.n. ativan.musculoskeletal system: she was tender in muscles likely relatedfrom obesity. with regard to infectious disease status , she hada negative chest ct. her cough is productive of blood , tingedsputum secondary to chronic cough and elevated inr. gramstaining culture were negative. a course of azithromycin wascompleted. she was also started on prednisone to help with herwheezing. she was transitioned back from her diuretic lasix doseto her usual home dose of lasix and her beta-blocker was changedto a long-acting. coumadin dose was adjusted to maintain her inrat therapeutic range and she is being discharged to rehab asphysical therapist evaluation felt that she is very unsteady onher feet.there were no complications of this hospital admission. thepatient did well , is improving , she will be discharged on aprednisone taper and nebulization. her bowel regimen wasdiscontinued because she was having a little bit of diarrhea.she should follow up with her primary care physician andcardiologist within two weeks of discharge from rehabilitation.there will be an addendum to this discharge summary with finalfollow up and medication list.escription document: 3-4085674 emssten teldictated by: lapitan , morrisattending: dockstader , mitchdictation id 0734890d: 10/7/06t: 10/7/06[report_end]