429448782 | catch | 95689635 | | 572179 | 2/25/2002 12:00:00 am | coronary artery disease | signed | dis | admission date: 3/19/2002 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/23/2002mr. shinaberry is a 73-year-old gentleman who returned to surgluthe leon calcner healthcare to the emergency room on 8/20/02 with crescendospontaneous angina and shortness of breath. he is three and onehalf months after a presentation with subacute left circumflexthrombosis , ischemic mitral regurgitation , pulmonary edema and asmall nontransmural myocardial infarction. his angiography at thattime revealed diffuse coronary atherosclerosis with attenuation anddiffuse narrowing of the left anterior descending coronary arteryand a small codominant right coronary system with extensive diffusedisease. large circumflex system with focally severe andadditional diffuse but noncritical stenosis with superimposedthrombus. dilatation of the left circumflex resulted in extensivedissection but with eventual achievement of a very goodangiographic and clinical result after placement of multiple stentsand that his course was that of gradual recovery and uneventfulreturn home.he remained frail and limited prior to this admission andapproximately six weeks prior to admission , began to haveoccasional pain and shortness of breath. he went to the cardiaccatheterization laboratory for intervention. he underwent arotablator procedure on 8/20/02 in the cath. laboratory whichresulted in perforation of circumflex coronary artery into thepericardial space with extravasation of blood. he went intocardiogenic shock which was alleviated by intra-aortic balloon pumpplacement and was seen in consultation by the cardiac surgeryservice for emergent coronary artery bypass grafting. he went tothe operating room on 8/20/02 where he underwent emergent coronaryartery revascularization. he sustained a retained rotablator burrin the left circumflex system and a left circumflex perforation.he underwent coronary artery bypass grafting x 5 with left internalmammary artery to the left anterior descending coronary artery ,saphenous vein graft to the posterior descending artery , saphenousvein graft to the obtuse marginal #2 , #3 and #1 and removal of arotablator burr , repair of the left ventricular apex vent. site.he came off bypass on 2 mcg of epinephrine and his intra-aorticballoon pump. during his code in the cath. lab , the patient hadbecome hypotensive requiring intubation and intra-aortic balloonpump placement as noted above. a foley catheter was placed by theurology service attending with much difficulty. his chest was leftopen at the time of operation as the patient was coagulopathic andesmarch closure was placed.his postoperative course: his coagulopathy was reversed with bloodproducts and his chest was closed without event on august , 02. hewas also seen in consultation by the diabetic management service tohelp with his diabetic management. he continued to havepostoperative cardiac failure , remained on dopamine , intra-aorticballoon pump , was slowly weaned and diuresis ensued. hisintra-aortic balloon pump was removed on postoperative day threeuneventfully. he continued to make good improvement and wasextubated on postoperative day four and transferred to thestep-down unit. he had mild confusion but has had a history ofcerebrovascular accident in the past. he still requires diuresis.chest tubes remained in place for very high chest tube output. hewas seen in consultation by the vascular surgery service for hissevere peripheral vascular disease and painful right foot. he wasalso continued to be followed by urologic service and his foley wasleft in place. he did have a bump in his bun and creatinine andrenal consult was obtained and helps with management of his fluidbalance. he was also seen in consultation by the thoracic surgeryservice for increased chest tube output , mainly from the rightpleural chest tube. his other chest tubes were discontinuedwithout any complications and his acute renal failure began toresolve. he received albumin and packed cells to correcthypoalbuminemia and also his postoperative anemia along with lasixfor diuresis. he continued to make slow improvement and advancednutritionally. he had a vascular mri which was done as requestedby vascular surgery service in preparation for potentialrevascularization to his right leg. he continued to improve. hisbun and creatinine were 90/3.5 at their highest level and have beenslowly declining over the past several weeks to today's level of 47for bun and 1.3 for creatinine. he continues to have low bloodcell counts; his white blood cell count is 3 today and hishematocrit is 32.8. platelet count is 98. he will requirefollow-up for these on a two times weekly basis. his mri showsmild irregularity of the distal abdominal aorta as well as the leftcommon iliac artery , mild narrowing over long segment about threecm. over the right external iliac artery. there is moderate focalnarrowing in the right common femoral artery at the bifurcationbetween the superficial femoral and deep femoral and there iscomplete occlusion in the distal right superficial femoral arterywith reconstitution three cm further. multiple areas of focalnarrowing are seen in the proximal and distal left superficialfemoral artery , high grade stenosis in the proximal left poplitealartery. the posterior tibial artery on the right side iscompletely occluded proximally. on the left side , there is highgrade stenosis in the anterior tibial proximally as well asocclusion of the anterior tibial in the mid calf withreconstitution distally and complete occlusion of the posteriortibial artery at it's origin. peroneal shows moderate posteriorstenosis. he has moderate to severe atherosclerotic disease in thelower extremities with multiple areas of narrowing inclusion. heis to follow-up with dr. erasmo gayler , division of vascularsurgery for revascularization of his lower extremities.mr. leitman is to be discharged on the following medications:meclizine 20 mg once a day , simvastatin 10 mg once a day , lopressor25 mg three times a day , enteric coated aspirin 325 mg once a day ,nystatin suspension 5 ml four times a day , swish and swallow ,miracle cream topical three times a day , lupron 25.2 mg q. 3 monthsas depot injection , nph insulin humulin 16 units subcu everymorning , regular insulin 6 units subcu every morning , lasix 40 mgonce a day , nph insulin 10 units subcu at 4:30 p.m. pre-dinner ,please and also humulin , ditropan 2.5 mg three times a day. czisliding scale , percocet one tablet every 6 to 8 h as needed forfoot pain , albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg every 6 hours by neb forwheezing , atrovent nebulizer 0.5 mg four times a day for wheezing ,imodium 2 mg by mouth every six hours as needed for diarrhea.he is to be discharged to the care of dr. emilio wojtecki , divisionof cardiology , bradllord general hospital and also to dr. marty scherbarth ence hospital , fay kee co as above.dictated by: palmer haber , p.a.attending: timmy h. klan , m.d. qf7qm431/405128batch: 1392 index no. h9btri91op d: 4/5/02t: 4/5/02cc: mathew roundabush , m.d. lw56sylvester a. spinello , m.d. vi7art bream , m.d. hs3