record #699364048372102 | vstmc | 63794588 | | 4661987 | 0/23/2005 12:00:00 am | congestive heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 3/16/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/25/2005attending: vanderbie , sebastian j. md , phdaddendumplease note this is an addendum to the previously dictateddischarge summary #2200332.interim history: in the interim , since the previously dictateddischarge summary , the patient has continued to progress from acardiac standpoint.hospital course: his hospital course by system from 9/24/05through the date of discharge is as follows:1. ischemia: the patient had continued to remain stable from anischemia standpoint. he continues on aspirin and statin. abeta-blocker has been added back to his regimen and was titratedto a dose of lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. the patient has notbeen started on an ace inhibitor secondary to his elevatedcreatinine at this time. he has had no further episodes of chestpain.2. pump: the patient's congestive heart failure regimen wastitrated. the patient continues on isordil 20 mg p.o. t.i.d. andhydralazine 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. for after load reduction. he wasrestarted on a low-dose beta-blocker at 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. aswell as digoxin at 0.125 mg p.o. q.o.d. the patient wasaggressively diuresed with intravenous lasix and zaroxolynfollowed by conversion to oral diuresis with torsemide at thetime of discharge. the patient will be followed by dr. rayford hogenmiller in the clevesa irvca sideenandri as well as by thechf service at sher-ship rimark's medical center . at the time ofdischarge , the patient was felt to be nearing euvolemia withestimated dry weight of approximately 76 to 77 kg.3. rhythm: the patient continued to have atrial flutter with ablock. his heart rate remained in the rate of 100 to 110 at thetime of discharge. he had decreased episodes of more rapiddysrhythmia following addition of beta-blocker and digoxin to hismedication regimen. he also continues on amiodarone at 200 mgp.o. q.d. as mentioned , the patient was found to have atrialclot on transesophageal echocardiogram and thus was started on aheparin drip and transitioned on coumadin. however , after asubstantial discussion with the congestive heart failure serviceand the patient's outpatient chf care team , it was felt that therisks of coumadin in this patient who has a history ofsignificant noncompliance were greater than the known risk ofthromboembolic disease in the setting of his known atrial clotand thus the patient was not continued on coumadinanticoagulation. rather , he was given aspirin and plavix at fulldoses. the use of coumadin in this patient could be re-evaluatedas an outpatient based on the patient's follow-up as deemedappropriate by his outpatient providers.4. endocrine: the patient remained on stable diabetes mellitusregimen of lantus 5 units q.p.m. and standing novolog 3 unitsq.a.c. as well as the novolog sliding scale. the patient'sinsulin regimen can be adjusted as an outpatient and possiblyoral diabetes medications restarted.5. pulmonary: the patient remained stable from the pulmonarywith good oxygen saturations on room air at rest and withambulation.6. renal: the patient's creatinine on the day prior todischarge was 1.6 improved from the peak of greater than 2.renal toxic medications were avoided. the patient had not beenrestarted on ace inhibitor , which could be done as an outpatientas his renal function stabilizes. his electrolytes weremonitored and repleted aggressively.7. hematology: as mentioned , the decision was made not toanticoagulate the patient with outpatient coumadin. he wasstarted on aspirin and plavix. of note , the patient also haddecreased platelets in the setting of heparin anticoagulation andthus anti-p4 antibody was sent. this test is pending at the timeof the dictation , but should be followed up by the patient'soutpatient providers as it may input further treatment. in themeantime , recommend no heparin products. as mentioned , thedecision was made by the chf team who will be following thepatient as an outpatient not to continue coumadinanticoagulation.8. neuro: of note , on the evening of 6/13/05 , the patientcomplained of left-sided blurry vision , which was new for thepatient. he does have chronic right visual changes. in light ofthe patient's known peripheral atherosclerotic disease and atrialclot , the patient was seen by the stroke team for a question ofacute stroke. he had mri at that time , which did show multipleold infarcts in the right frontal , right occipital , leftoccipitoparietal , left posterior frontal areas. there was ,however , no new stroke seen on the mri. the left internalcarotid artery was not evaluated , not visualized on the mri andthere was concern for left carotid artery occlusion versusstenosis. the patient declined any procedure such as carotidendarterectomy or carotid stenting for his possible carotidstenosis and due to this denial no workup with the cta was done.it was felt that because the patient would decline anyintervention the risk of contrast in the setting of his acuterenal insufficiency would outweigh the benefits of the study.the patient declined any intervention for his carotid arteries onseveral occasions. a carotid noninvasives were ordered and arepending at the time of this dictation to evaluate the severity ofdisease.9. social: the patient's sister , alexis fernendez , is his health careproxy. the patient in her presence has declined coronary arterybypass grafting and heart transplant evaluation. the patient hasalso declined further procedure for his probable carotid arterystenosis.10. disposition: the patient will be discharged to the com medical center for further rehabilitation. he will follow up with dr.kyle yandle in the t las on 2/28/05 at 08:30 a.m. as wellas with dr. clyde chatampaya of elmert hospitalcardiology 9/26/05. he also has a follow-up appointment withtristontern medical center pcp , raymond banaag , on 10/3/05 at 01:50 p.m. the patientrequires substantial social support at this time , which is beingprovided by his sister.medications at the time of discharge:1. aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.2. amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d.3. digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.o.d.4. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.5. folate 1 mg p.o. q.d.6. robitussin a-c 5 ml p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. cough.7. hydralazine 50 mg p.o. t.i.d.8. isordil 20 mg p.o. t.i.d.9. lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. q.6h.10. simethicone 80 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. upset stomach.11. multivitamin one tab p.o. q.d.12. compazine 5-10 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. nausea.13. tessalon 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. cough.14. torsemide 100 mg p.o. q.d.15. lipitor 80 mg p.o. q.d.16. plavix 75 mg p.o. q.d.17. lantus 5 units subcu q.p.m.18. novolog 3 units subcu a.c. instructions , give only if foodin room and the patient eating , hold if n.p.o.19. novolog sliding scale , please do not give any sliding scalecoverage at h.s. but do record fingerstick blood glucose at h.s. ,hold if n.p.o.escription document: 3-4123789 csdictated by: janiszewski , travisattending: innes , britt p.dictation id 7325126d: 4/6/05t: 4/6/05[report_end]