record #705164039732622 | scbh | 06180973 | | 8113494 | 0/21/2006 12:00:00 am | atrial fibrillation | signed | dis | admission date: 1/9/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/21/2006attending: molima , issac m.d.attending surgeon: hassan fail , m.d.principal diagnoses: chronic atrial fibrillation and atrialflutter.principal discharge diagnoses: chronic atrial fibrillation ,atrial flutter , and ablation.medication problems: include ,1. atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter left sided , statuspost atrial fibrillation ablation attempt x1 , and atrial flutterablation x4 , transesophageal echo in 10/7 showed that atrialappendage thrombus and trace mitral regurgitation.2. hyperprolactinemia.3. hypercholesterolemia.4. chest ct in 6/25 showed multiple tiny nodules in the rightupper lobe that needed to be followed up in 6-12 months.brief history of present illness: the patient is a 52-year-oldmale with a history of recurrent atrial fibrillation and atrialflutter , status post multiple cardioversion and failed ablations ,admitted electively for repeat ablation of his atrial flutter.he was initially diagnosed with atrial fibrillation about 12years ago and had multiple failed cardioversion and medicationtrials. he underwent several atrial fibrillation ablations ,which ultimately all failed. overtime his atrial fibrillationhas become atrial flutter possibly due to scarring of the atrialwall and repeated ablations. when he was first diagnosed withatrial fibrillation he was started on coumadin , but that gave himskin necrosis around his right scapular region. he had been allthe anticoagulants until 10/7 when during transesophageal echofor planned ablation he was found to have a left atrial appendageclot. he was first started on lovenox , which caused largeecchymosis , which prompted him to switch anticoagulation thefondaparinux. he now lived persistently in atrial flutter. hisweight controlled with acebutolol. his physical activity hassomewhat decreased and he occasionally gets short of breath ,epigastric discomfort , and palpitations. he was admitted on9/14/06 for planned atrial flutter ablation by dr. bockemehl anddr. caddle however , a preprocedure transesophageal echoagain demonstrated a left atrial appendage thrombus despite beingon fondaparinux , instead the patient underwent permanent atrialfibrillation and atrial flutter surgery , which included a fourthsternotomy and ablation of atrial fibrillation with cox iii mazewith cryoablation and cut and sew resection of the left and rightatrial appendages and closure of a patent foramen ovale.preadmission medications: included lipitor 40 mg orally daily ,acebutolol 200 mg orally daily , bromocriptine 7.5 mg orallydaily , and fondaparinux 10 mg subcutaneously daily.social history: the patient has no tobacco use , no alcoholabuse , and no illicit drug use.allergies: the patient has allergies to quinidine , coumadin towhich he has a skin necrosis allergy , flecainide which he hasquestionable syncope , and amiodarone in which he developedabnormal liver function test.admission physical exam: the patient was alert and oriented x3.he was in no acute distress. his lungs are clear bilaterally toauscultation. his cardiovascular exam demonstrated regular rateand rhythm with a normal s1 and s2. there were no murmurs , rubs ,or gallops. his abdomen was obese. bowel sounds are positive.his abdomen was soft and nontender. his extremities were warm.there was no edema. skin: there was no rashes. neuro exam wasnonfocal.operations and procedures: on 9/23/06 , the patient underwentfourth sternotomy ablation of atrial fibrillation with cox iiimaze with cryoablation and cut and sew resection of the left andright atrial appendages , closure of patent foramen ovale.surgery was performed by dr. rosendo schwabaueradditional procedures: the patient underwent cardiaccatheterization on 6/15/06 , which showed that he was right heartdominant that the left main coronary artery had no significantlesions. the left anterior descending artery had no significantlesion. the left circumflex artery proximally showed a tubular25% lesion and the right coronary artery showed no significantlesions with a mid tubular 40% lesion in the rtlv-vr.hospital course by problems: cardiovascular: rhythm forpersistent atrial flutter , the patient was unable to go rightflutter ablation at present given his left atrial appendage cloton transesophageal echo. therefore , his rate was controlled withhis home medication acebutolol until surgery was performed on9/23/06 , which included a fourth sternotomy ablation of atrialfibrillation with cox iii maze with cryoablation , and cut and sewresection of the left and right atrial appendages , and closure ofpatent foramen ovale. there were no complications after thesurgery. the patient was discharged on 6/11/06.physical exam on discharge: temperature was 99.9 , heart rate 58 ,blood pressure 104/96 , and he was sating 96% on 1.5 liters. hewas in sinus rhythm. cardiovascular wise: he had regular , rate ,and rhythm. his lungs were clear bilaterally. his extremitieswere warm. there was 1+ ankle edema.discharge medications: included acebutolol 200 mg orally daily ,bromocriptine 7.5 mg orally daily , aspirin 325 mg orally daily ,fondaparinux 10 mg subcutaneously daily , calcium chloride slowrelease 20 meq orally twice a day , lasix 40 mg orally twice aday , levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. daily , lisinopril 10 mg orallydaily , motrin 600 mg orally q.6 h. as needed for pain , and zocor40 mg orally at nighttime daily.disposition: he was stable upon discharge and had followup withdr. jeffers in cardiovascular clinic , advanced directive. thepatient is full code.escription document: 5-8867390 cssten teldictated by: wunderle , jameyattending: nuse , averydictation id 6018558d: 5/15/06t: 0/12/06[report_end]