record #715660896629614 | sehc | 11583349 | | 468513 | 1/7/1998 12:00:00 am | dehydration | signed | dis | admission date: 2/25/1998 report status: signeddischarge date: 0/10/1998final diagnosis: ( 1 ) coronary artery disease( 2 ) hypertension( 3 ) obesity( 4 ) diabetes , insulin requiring( 5 ) depression( 6 ) gout( 7 ) chronic hearing loss( 8 ) history of cholecystectomy and appendectomyhistory of present illness: the patient is a 65 year old womanwith insulin requiring diabetesmellitus , hypertension , and known coronary artery disease whopresented on the day of admission after having a fall at home. shewas noted in the emergency room to have new ecg changes. thepatient was recently catheterized in march of 1998 at which timeshe was found to have a 100% left anterior descending arterylesion , a 100% right coronary artery lesion , and a 40% obtusemarginal 1 lesion. her left anterior descending artery and rightcoronary artery territories were being served by collaterals andthe decision was made to manage her medically on enteric coatedaspirin , atenolol 50 mg q.d. , lisinopril 30 mg q.d. , and pravacidat 20 mg q.d. her bumex dose was recently increased from 1 to 2q.d. on 8/16/98 . she was recently admitted from 11/19/98 to 5/11/98 for increasing shortness of breath and some chest pain and hadcatheterization with results as described above. she wasdischarged to home on an increase in her medical regimen. her lastechocardiogram was done in february of 1997 and this showed amoderately dilated left ventricle with septal akinesis , inferiorhypokinesis , and an ejection fraction of 35%. her rightventricular size and function were normal. there was mild leftatrial enlargement , mild mitral regurgitation , mild tricuspidregurgitation , and trivial aortic insufficiency. since dischargeshe has been followed in tauershingdeneers hospital by dr.goodfield , as well as by dr. adamyan of cardiology. her bumex dose asdescribed above was increased on 8/16/98 because of fluid overload.of note , she has had very poor glycemic control over the two monthsprior to admission with blood sugars in the 300 to 400 range. herlast a1c was 12.3 on 8/16/98 . it had been 6.0 on 8/27/97 . on theday of admission after standing up to get her insulin , she feltlightheaded and fell backwards , landing on her coccyx into a chairbut the chair fell backwards and so she fell backwards as well.she reported that for two or three days prior to admission she hadbeen having some lightheadedness. she denied any visual changes orweakness , loss of consciousness or head injury. she denied anyseizure or seizure history or loss of urine. she was unable to getup and called for help and an ambulance brought her to theemergency room department.review of systems: she reported occasional diarrhea andconstipation. she had no fever or chills. nocough. no urinary symptoms. she also denied any dietaryindiscretion or non-compliance with her insulin. she reports thatshe has chest pain approximately two times per week but deniedhaving any chest pain on the day of admission.medications: enteric coated aspirin 325 mg q.d. , atenolol 50 mgq.d. , isordil 20 mg t.i.d. , lisinopril 30 mg q.d. ,bumex 2 mg q.d. since 8/16/98 , pravastatin 20 mg q.d. , omeprazole20 mg q.d. , insulin nph 75 q.a.m. and 35 q.p.m. , regular 25 q.a.m.and 15 q.p.m. , trazadone 100 mg qhs p.r.n. , allegra 60 mg b.i.d. ,proventil 2 b.i.d.past medical history: coronary artery disease as noted above.hypertension. obesity. insulin-dependentdiabetes mellitus. depression. gout. chronic hearing lossrequiring hearing aids bilaterally. history of cholecystectomyand appendectomy in past.family history: unremarkable.social history: the patient lives alone and has a visiting nurse.she use to work in housekeeping at themo dessimed memorial hospital .  she has a remote history ofsmoking but does not drink any alcohol.physical examination: she is an obese woman in no acute distress.temperature 98.3 degrees , pulse 95 , bloodpressure 109/63. her room air saturation was 95%. she was notorthostatic. heent: unremarkable. jugular venous distensiondifficult to assess because of her habitus. heart: regular rateand rhythm. s1 and s2 distant. no murmurs , rubs , or gallops.lungs clear with exception of question of some rales at bases.this was also difficult to assess due to poor inspiratory effort.abdomen: benign. extremities: 1+ edema at feet only.neurologic: nonfocal. the patient was an appropriate historianbut had difficulty hearing some of the questions.laboratory data: normal set of electrolytes with bun 58 ,creatinine 2.4. blood sugar 435. anion gap 16.arterial blood gas on room air: ph 7.4 , pco2 40 , po2 69 , oxygensaturation 94%. the first ck done in the emergency room departmentwas 194. an ace test was positive but beta hydroxybutyrate wasnegative with triponin of 0. wbc 7 , hematocrit 37 , platelet count167. coagulase was within normal limits. urinalysis wasremarkable for 3+ glucose with no ketones , 1+ esterace , negativenitrite , 20 to 25 white blood cells , 2 to 3 red blood cells , 2+bacteria , and 1+ yeast. urine culture was sent and came backnegative. ecg was normal sinus rhythm at rate of 92 with intervalsof 0.15 , 0.1 , and 0.324 , an axis of 32 , and left atrialenlargement. there were new t-wave inversions in leads 1 and lwith biphasic t-waves in v4 through v6 compared with her ecg of1/14/97 .assessment: in short , this is a 65 year old woman with known twovessel coronary artery disease , hypertension , andinsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus under poor glycemic controlrecently , now presenting with hyperglycemia , dehydration , and newecg changes suggestive of lateral ischemia. she was admitted forrule out of myocardial infarction and monitoring.hospital course: cardiovascular: the patient was admitted andplaced on a cardiac monitor. she ruled out formyocardial infarction by enzymes and her ecg continued to show newlateral t-wave changes. there was no evolution or change in thesethroughout the course of the admission. on 8/0/98 the patientunderwent a dobutamine mibi study after discussion with her primarycare physician and cardiologist , dr. ginkel , who felt that thiswould be a helpful study , given her difficult history and knownunderlying coronary artery disease. the results of the dobutaminestudy were that she had no ecg changes and the mibi images showedlateral and inferior infarcts but no active ischemia.over the course of the first couple of days of the admission , thepatient's blood pressure was noted to be lower than her usualbaseline. her diuretics were held with the thought that herelevated creatinine , lightheadedness , and general malaise wereprobably due to dehydration , given that her bumex dose had recentlybeen increased. she was gently hydrated with a total of about 3liters and her blood pressure increased somewhat. a follow-upchest x-ray was done which did not show any evidence of congestiveheart failure. the patient had no other active cardiac issuesduring this admission.renal: at the time of the admission the patient's creatinine was2.5. it subsequently bumped to a maximum of 2.9 in the setting ofher dehydration. her blood pressure medications were held and shewas gently rehydrated. with this treatment , her creatininereturned to its baseline of approximately 1.5 to 1.6. at the timeof admission there was some question as to whether she might have aurinary tract infection given her urinalysis; however , a urineculture came back negative. the white blood cells in her urine onadmission were not present on a subsequent specimen which wasobtained by straight catheterization and the thought was that theinitial pyuria was probably related to vaginal candidiasis.pulmonary: over the course of the first three or four days ofadmission , the patient developed a somewhat increasing oxygenrequirement for unclear reasons. her need for oxygen waxed andwaned but , because of her habitus and her general complaints ofdyspnea over the last several months , there was some concern thatshe may be having chronic pulmonary embolus. for this reason shewas taken to vq scan on 10/24/98 . this study was read as lowprobability. she was transiently anticoagulated while awaiting theresults of the scan but the heparin was subsequently discontinued.the reasons for her increase in oxygen requirement during thecourse of this admission remained somewhat unclear. it is possiblethat she has sleep apnea given her body habitus and this wouldwarrant follow-up as an outpatient. her oxygen saturation at thetime of discharge is approximately 92% on room air.endocrine: at the time of admission the patient had blood sugarsin the range of 400 to 500. her insulin doses were increased inorder to obtain better glycemic control. the reason for her suddenincrease in insulin needs remains elusive.orthopedics: at the time of the admission the patient had a set oflumbosacral spine films done in order to rule out injuries relatedto her fall. the films were read as showing a potential subtlefracture of the coccyx. the patient had a significant amount ofpain in this area over the course of admission and it was thoughtlikely that she did , indeed , have a fracture. she has been workingwith physical therapy in order to increase her mobility.gastrointestinal: the patient had been complaining over thisadmission of some burning in her esophagus , as well as someepigastric tenderness. it seems from review of her records thatthis has been a chronic problem. she was started on cisapride forpresumptive element of diabetic gastroparesis , in addition to beingmaintained on her prilosec. of note , she had recently undergoneendoscopy and been diagnosed with a question of helicobacter pyloriinfection which has now been treated. however , her symptomscontinue. in addition , she had recently had a barium study in mayof 1996 that showed no abnormalities. it was decided that thisstudy did not warrant repeating at this point.neurologic: on several occasions during this admission the patientbecame acutely confused. at these times she was not noted to havea focal neurological examination. these instances appearedquestionably related to dosing of her compazine and also all seemedto occur in the evening. it was thought that she was probablysundowning and , during her clearer moments , she reported havingsimilar problems at home.infectious disease: the patient began having some low grade feverson approximately hospital day #4. blood and urine cultures at thattime were negative. because of the low grade fevers and herdecreased oxygen saturation intermittently , chest x-ray and vq scanwere done. the vq scan was read as low probability. the chestx-ray was read as having some atelectasis in the left lower lobe.there was a question of whether this was atelectasis versus aninfiltrate. however , since the patient remained with a normal wbcand no purulent sputum , it was thought unlikely that she hadpneumonia. she also reported having some congestion and it wasthought that she might be having low grade fevers from a upperrespiratory infection.disposition: discharge medications: albuterol inhaler 2 puffsq.i.d. , enteric coated aspirin 325 mg q.d. , atenolol25 mg q.d. , colace 100 mg b.i.d. , nph insulin 95 q.a.m. and 45q.p.m. , sliding scale insulin q.ac. and qhs , regular insulin 30q.a.m. and 20 q.p.m. , atrovent inhaler 2 puffs q.i.d. , isordil 10mg t.i.d.- hold for systolic blood pressure less than 100 ,lisinopril 30 mg p.o. q.d.- hold for systolic blood pressure lessthan 100 , prilosec 20 mg q.d. , cisapride 10 mg q.i.d. , pravastatin20 mg qhs , allegra 60 mg b.i.d. the patient is discharged torehabilitation because of her difficulty with walking. followup:she will follow-up in clinic with her cardiologist , dr. berken , andwith her primary care physician , dr. ismael tabar .dictated by: louis sista , m.d. zw08attending: hunter coins , m.d. lh71  lt716/5627batch: 8792 index no. gswniu82of d: 5/11/98t: 5/11/98[report_end]