483275754 yc4539598293424310/18/1994 12:00:00 amdischarge summarysigneddisadmission date :10/18/1994report status :signeddischarge date :10/27/1994principal diagnosis :right lung pneumoniaother diagnoses :chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , with persistent hypoxemia hypertension hyponatremia history of present illness :mr. cliffestreukote is a 73 year old white male , without a significant past medical history .he was feeling well until approximately ten days prior to admission , when he developed malaise , fatigue , and cough .he reported to his physician on the 10/12/94 , when he developed worsening symptoms of increased cough , productive of yellow sputum .his chest x-ray done at that time , showed a right lower lung pneumonia , and he was started on keflex .since the 12th of october , to the day of admission , the patient continued to have symptoms , including fever as high as 101.4 , with worsening coughs and sputum .on the morning of admission , he developed increased shortness of breath , along with flecks of blood in his sputum .he then reported to the emergency ward at the tonwe hospital for evaluation .review of systems :significant for a mild increase in urination , accompanied by dysuria , for approximately one week prior to admission .he denied nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation , or abdominal pain .he denied headache .he did admit recent travel to estockux .he has two cats at home , although he denies suffering any scratches , or being licked by the cats .he had no rashes , there were no sick exposures .he denied weight loss .he did , however , admit to night sweats recently , as well as poor oral intake .in addition , mr. cliffestreukote reports that he is homosexual , although he denies sexual contact for approximately 30 years .past medical history :significant for a right nephrectomy in 1933 for mycobacterium bovis , and pyelonephritis that has never been medically treated .he has had an appendectomy , cholecystectomy , and a tonsillectomy .he has a history of hypertension , as well as a history of nose bleeds , and a history of sinusitis .he is allergic to erythromycin , which caused his tongue to split and bleed , as well as to bactrim , which causes hives .medications on admission :verapamil sr 240 mg. two a day , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg. q. day , and keflex since the 25th of july .family history :noncontributory , with the exception of a strong family history for mycobacterium bovis infection .social history :he is followed by dr. rybam selcjescpint .he admits to an approximately 25-50 pack year smoking history , and social alcohol use .he denies intravenous drug use .he says that he has not had sexual activity for 30 years .he lives with his friend , who is healthy .physical examination :elderly white male in no acute distress , with nasal cannula oxygen .his temperature was 99.8 , with a heart rate of 79 , blood pressure 140/90 , respiration rate of 20 .his saturation on 4 liters of oxygen was 89% .heent :pupils were equal , round and reactive to light .extraocular movements were intact .oropharynx was clear and dry .his dentition was ok .neck :jugular veins were flat .carotids showed 2+ upstroke , no bruits .there was full range of motion .no thyromegaly .lungs :decreased breath sounds at the right base with e to a changes in the right base and laterally .there was no dullness to percussion noted , however , with the exception of the right base .cardiovascular :regular rate and rhythm with an s1 noted clearly , with no murmurs , rubs or gallops .abdomen :soft .nondistended and nontender .there was no visceromegaly noted .his bowel sounds were present and normoactive .there was no costovertebral angle tenderness .in addition , a well-healed scar at the right costovertebral angle was noted , consistent with his history of nephrectomy .extremities :there was evidence for chronic venous changes on his lower extremities .his pulses were 2+ .there was no clubbing , cyanosis or edema .neuro :nonfocal .rectal :guaiac negative , good anal tone .laboratory data :sodium 128 , potassium 4.6 , chloride 87 , bicarb 24 , bun 27 , creatinine 1.1 , and glucose 105 .in addition , his ldh was elevated to 323 .his alt was 33 , his ast was 50 .alkaline phosphatase of 81 .bilirubin of 0.8 .his white count was 14.9 , hematocrit 41.7 , platelet count of 487 .his coagulation profile was within normal limits .chest x-ray revealed a small right lower lobe infiltrate , on the 14th , with a tiny effusion on the 20th , the night of admission .the pneumonia was now noted to be much larger , with a new right middle lobe infiltrate , as well as with a diffuse reticular interstitial pattern noted at the fringes of the pneumonic infiltrate .sputums were sent off for gram stain and culture , as well as for afb smear cultures .his electrocardiogram was within normal limits .his urine sediment was basically within normal limits .hospital course :mr. cliffestreukote was admitted on the night of the 20th , for obvious right lung pneumonia .the differential diagnosis included several organisms as outlined below .(1) pneumonia .he was admitted for a pneumonia unresponsive to antibiotics for five days .the pneumonia was found to be multilobar , and accompanied by significant hypoxia .he was started on broad spectrum coverage , including ceftriaxone , clindamycin , and ciprofloxacin .the ration off for the utilization of the ciprofloxacin , was that because of his allergy to erythromycin , an alternative regimen was needed to cover for legionella , which was probably the leading diagnosis at the time of admission , because of his hyponatremia accompanied by liver function abnormalities .however , he was isolated , and three afb smears were obtained , in order to rule out tuberculosis .in addition , sputum induction was performed for pneumocystis , which was negative .his urinary legionella antigen subsequently came back negative .however , this test is only 85-95% sensitive for legionella pneumophila , type i , which is the subtype that causes some 80% of legionnaires disease .however , the legionella antigen is neither sensitive , nor specific , for other legionella species that may be involved in legionella pneumonia .therefore , the ciprofloxacin was continued .in addition , his sputum cultures were all negative , as of the day of admission .after admission , with the initiation of antibiotic therapy , mr. cliffestreukote remained quite hypoxic .however , within one to two days after admission , he defervesced with a significant decrease in his cough during the week , post admission .because of persistent hypoxemia on room air , as well as nasal cannula , some concern was raised about the possibility of underlying chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , versus some other lesion that may predispose him for persistent hypoxemia , ( i.e. malignancy ) .therefore , an evaluation by the pulmonary team of the tonwe hospital , as well as a sputum cytology and chest ct scan , were all obtained .the chest ct scan revealed evidence for emphysematous changes of his lungs , as well as the previously noted right pneumonia , with several pseudo abscesses noted in infected bullae .his sputum cytology is pending at the time of discharge .the pulmonary team felt that the patient exhibited significant physical findings , laboratory values , and radiologic features , all consistent with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease .therefore , his persistent hypoxemia may be secondary to that underlying disease .despite being afebrile , with significant decrease in his cough , mr. cliffestreukote will be maintained , after discharge , on eleven more days of antibiotic therapy , to complete a full course .it should be noted , that clindamycin was discontinued , approximately three days after admission , because of the development of diarrhea .additionally , when switched to oral medication , mr. cliffestreukote was switched to augmentin 500 mg. p.o. t.i.d. , as well as continuing on his ciprofloxacin 150 mg. p.o. b.i.d.(2) hypertension .while in the hospital , mr. cliffestreukote was maintained on hydrochlorothiazide , and verapamil sr , and required no additional medication .(3) hyponatremia .while in the hospital , persistent type of natremia was noted on the patient &apos;s profile 7 labs .it was felt that this was due largely to his pulmonary disease , and would resolve with the resolution of his intrapneumonic process .while in the hospital , there were no complications .discharge medications :augmentin 500 mg. p.o. t.i.d. for eleven more days , ciprofloxacin 750 mg. p.o. b.i.d. for eleven days , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg. p.o. q. day , verapamil sr 240 mg. p.o. q. day , and atrovent meter dose inhaler two puffs four times a day .disposition :his condition on discharge was stable .he was discharged to home .he has a followup appointment with dr. naaan jesc , in the tonwe hospital pulmonary clinic on 2-18-95 , at 9:45 a.m. , as well as with his primary care physician , dr. rybam selcjescpint .his estimated disability is mild .we are still awaiting the results of his hiv testing .dictated by :nasa linkeweertsjescleask , m.d. co23attending :rybam t. selcjescpint , m.d. on57 rp221/7499batch :9144index no. wgrd2l3heed :10/27/94t :10/27/94cc :1. rybam t. selcjescpint , m.d.2. nasa linkeweertsjescleask , m.d.