248652055 | cm | 07563073 | | 5027467 | 8/29/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | unsigned | dis | admission date: 1/23/2005 report status: unsigneddischarge date:attending: delpino , vance sammy mdservice:the patient has been treated on cardiac surgery service.chief complaint:heart failure.history of present illness:ms. feddes is a 56-year-old female with past medical historysignificant for obesity and idiopathic cardiomyopathy diagnosedin 1990 with an ef of 15% who was admitted on 7/20/05 forone-week history of lower extremity edema and worsening heartfailure. she was treated initially on the medicine service whereshe was aggressively diuresed but was requiring increasingpressors and progressing in her chf despite transfer to the ccuand appropriate management by the medical team. on 1/10/05 , atransplant heart became available , and she proceeded to undergo aheart transplant.past medical history:diabetes , renal failure , gout and obesity.past surgical history:tubal ligation , gastric stapling for obesity , and a hickmanplacement.medications at home:lovenox 40 mg q. daily , lasix 30 iv continuously , dobutamine 5 ivcutaneously , milrinone 0.3 mcg/kg/ minute , colace 100 mg p.o.b.i.d. , sliding scale insulin , metolazone 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,probenecid 500 mg p.o. daily , thiamine 50 mg p.o. daily ,vancomycin 1 gram iv b.i.d. mvi therapeutic one tab p.o. daily ,carnitine 0.5 grams p.o. t.i.d. , and celexa 30 mg p.o. daily.hospital course:the patient was initially treated on the medicine service but on1/10/05 was taken to the operating room by the cardiac surgeryservice for a heart transplant. for detailed description of theoperative procedure , please see the dictated op note. thepatient tolerated the procedure and was transferred to the walklos ey trham aupids lubfranna icuin a critical condition.icu course by systems:neurological: initially , the patient was kept sedated onpropofol as well as intermittent fentanyl and versed. as she wasweaned towards extubation , her sedating medications were weanedand she was extubated while on precedex due to her history ofanxiety. her precedex was eventually weaned off and she wasneurologically intact but frequently confused and oftendisoriented. over the next several days , has continued to weanand she was restarted on her celexa as well as ativan foragitation and anxiety. at the time of transfer , she isneurologically intact with no focal neurological deficits and sheis no longer confused. she is awake , alert and oriented toperson , place and time and completely appropriate in her speech.cardiovascular: shortly after her operation , she was felt to bein profound right heart failure. she was started on milrinonewith successive treatment of her right heart failure. over thenext several days , she was weaned off slowly her pressors andunderwent an echocardiogram which showed moderate-to-severe trand a large pericardial effusion with some indentation of theright atrium with respiration. however , no pericardiocentesiswas performed as the patient was not clinically in tamponade.she underwent a cardiac catheterization for right heart biopsy ,the results of which are still pending. at the present time , sheis on diltiazem 15 mg p.o. q.8h. for hypertension as well asmilrinone 0.2. cardiology is following and plans to keep themilrinone going for the time being.pulmonary. the patient was kept intubated for the first severaldays while she was unstable and on pressors. however , as shebegan to improve , we weaned towards extubation , and she wassuccessfully extubated. at the current time , she is able toambulate on room air and has no pulmonary issues.gi: the patient was kept n.p.o. for the first seven days afterher operation. after her extubation , a dobbhoff feeding tube wasinserted and she was started on tube feeds until she was able toclear her speech and swallow. upon clearing her speech andswallow evaluation , she was started on minced food with thickenedliquids , which she tolerated with minimal signs or symptoms ofaspiration. she was advanced to a house diet with thickenedliquids and is now taking that well and having normal bowelmovements. she is on nexium for gi prophylaxis.gu: initially , she was given a lot of fluid in order to wean herpressors; however , she was diuresed aggressively after the firsttwo postoperative days for currently being on a lasix drip orreceiving large bolus doses of lasix. her creatinine has trendedup minorly postoperatively to a current level of 1.8. she is nolonger receiving any diuretics and is just being managed bykeeping her i's and o's even. she is on no nephrotoxicmedications.heme: she is frequently anemic with her hematocrit oftentrending downwards to levels as low as 20 or 21. she has beentransfused with multiple units of blood products and will betransfused today one unit of packed red cells for a hematocrit of21. she has been started on niferex for iron therapy , and we areconsidering the addition of erythropoietin. otherwise , she isstable and has no heme issues.id and immunosuppression:she has been immunosuppressed on various different medications.her current regimen is cellcept 1500 mg p.o. b.i.d. , neoral 125mg p.o. b.i.d. , prednisone 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. for prophylaxis ,she is also on valcyte 450 mg p.o. daily , and bactrim one doublestrength tab q.o.d. as well as nystatin swish and swallow andpowders for her axilla and groin. she has not spiked any tempsand none of her cultures have been positive except for oneurinary culture positive for gram-negative rods for which she ison levofloxacin 250 daily for seven days.endocrine: her sugars have been very difficult control. she wasinitially on the portland protocol for several dayspostoperatively and on an insulin drip according to her sugarlevels. diabetes management service was consulted and has beenassessing her daily for her insulin needs. she is currently on aregimen that consist of 30 mg of lantus every evening as well as8 units of novolog with every meal and sliding scale coveragewith novolog for meals as well. her sugars are mildly wellcontrolled but could use tighter glycemic control.tubes , lines , and drains:her wires and chest tubes have been removed. she has no centralaccess. she just has peripherals.medications at the time of transfer:diltiazem 15 mg p.o. q.8h. , folic acid 1 mg p.o. daily , ativan 1mg p.o. q.8h. and 1 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. agitation , magnesiumsliding scale p.o. b.i.d. , magnesium sulfate sliding scale ivdaily , niferex 150 mg p.o. q.12h. , nystatin 5 ml p.o. q.i.d. ,prednisone 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. , mvi therapeutic with minerals ,thiamine hydrochloride 100 mg p.o. daily , prednisone 25 mg p.o.b.i.d. , thiamine 100 mg p.o. daily , milrinone iv 0.2mcg/kg/minute , neoral 125 mg p.o. b.i.d. , bactrim ds one tabletp.o. daily , cellcept 1500 mg p.o. b.i.d. , levoflox 250 mg p.o.daily x7 doses , miconazole 2% powder tp q.8h. , and celexa 20 mgp.o. daily , nexium 40 mg p.o. daily , valcyte 450 mg p.o. daily ,lantus 30 units subcutaneous q.h.s. , duoneb q.6h. , novolog 4units subcutaneous q.a.c. , novolog sliding scale subcutaneousq.a.c. , novolog sliding scale subq q.h.s. , novolog 8 unitssubcutaneous q.a.c.disposition:she is being transferred to the step-down unit in stablecondition.escription document: 8-2798139 emsdictated by: chaffey , jc warnerattending: lotridge , marvin christopherdictation id 9844371d: 3/18/05t: 3/18/05