record date: 2086-08-13reason for visit	annual physical exam.problems	  breast carcinoma	      s:  the pt. is five years s/p modified radical mastectomy, with 3 of 14 nodes involved, with a poorly differentiated intra-ductal carcinoma.  she's been on tamoxifen 10 mg. b.i.d. since that time and is being followed by dr. quy cherry.  for the past several years she has been on 20 mg. of tamoxifen b.i.d.o:  well-healed l modified radical mastectomy.  no axillary notes noted.  r breast appears normal.  pt. gets routine mammograms on the r breast.a:  s/p left radical mastectomy for ca. of the breast, with no evidence of recurrence.p:  no further therapy indicated.osteoarthritis	      s:  pt. takes indocin intermittently for pain in her hips and hands.  she has a long history of osteoarthritis.o:  minimal degenerative joint disease, changes in hands and legs, with some distortion of the knees.a:  mild oa.p:  indocin was renewed.hypertensive heart disease	      s:  pt. has been treated for hypertension since 2064.  when she came to me in 2084 she'd been on accupril 5 mg. a day, but her bp was 180/80.  since that time, despite the administration of a variety of antihypertensives, her bp has rarely been normal and she insists that her bp is a function of having come to the doctor.o:  bp 180/80.  heart is nsr, without murmurs, gallops, clicks or ectopy.  ekg shows no lvh.  fundi show some narrowing of the arterioles.a:  white coat hypertension?p:  pt. told that we felt it was important to lower her bp.  she is on accupril 20 mg. and atican 32 mg. daily.  she finally accepted our medication to double her medication to atican 64 and accupril 40 mg. daily.  we will check her bp in three weeks.vital signs	  pulse:	 96   weight:	 136   poundsheight:	 59   inchesblood pressure:	 180/80   physical exam	  heent	bilateral arcus cornealis.  pupils react = to light.  fundi show mild narrowing of the arterioles.  pharynx is clear.  pt. has upper and lower dentures.  ears negative.  neck	no adenopathy or thyromegaly.  no bruits.breast	r breast is free of nodules or nodes.  axillae free of notes.  she has a l modified radical mastectomy with well-healed scar.  chest	chest is clear to p&a.cor/cardiac	heart is nsr, without murmurs, gallops, clicks or ectopy, at 96 per minute.abdomen	no liver, spleen or other organs or masses.  no tenderness or guarding.extremity	minimal djd changes in her knees and hands.  good peripheral pulses.  no cyanosis or clubbing.neurological	station and gait, cranial nerves and dtr's are all within normal limits.disposition and plans	blood drawn for cbc, full profile and tsh.  urinalysis shows a large amount of white cells; this was sent for culture.  ekg is wnl, at 100 per minute.  pt. is to return in three weeks for a bp check.