655002073 | dgmc | 29066151 | | 513959 | 10/28/2000 12:00:00 am | congestive heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 11/2/2000 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/24/2000service: the service on which the patient received care wascardiology broketroit ma rihistory of present illness: mrs. wetterauer is a 54-year-old femalewith coronary artery disease statuspost inferior myocardial infarction in october of 1997 , with sicksinus syndrome , status post permanent pacemaker placement , andparoxysmal atrial fibrillation controlled with amiodarone; alsowith history of diabetes mellitus and hypertension. she wasadmitted to the crotamp hospital for severe respiratorydistress on 7/10 the summary of clinical events is as follows.the evening of 7/11 , the patient was having intercourse and"collapsed." she was very short of breath with this , and presentedto the emergency department via the paramedics. they attempted tointubate her on the field and found her pulse oxygen to be about 60percent on bag valve mask. they were unable to do so. she wasdescribed during this episode by her husband as to have been"gurgling." she began to describe shortness of breath , and tookher inhalers which did not help. she began to cough quite a bitand coughed up some frothy white sputum. at the emergencydepartment , she was immediately intubated at sirosethere was some difficulty intubating her , and she was ultimatelyintubated by the attending anesthesiologist there. anechocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 25 to 30 percent withflat cks. she was diuresed six liters with a stable bun andcreatinine and was extubated on 10/11 a right heartcatheterization there showed a pulmonary artery pressure of 40/15 ,wedge of 12 , cardiac output of 5.2. hemodymanics in the intensivecare unit at chebanks hospital indicate the patient's cardiac outputwas quite dependent on her svr. her cardiac index fell into thehigh two's when her svr was in the 1340 range , but jumped up intothe high three's at about 3.8 when her svr was much lower down inthe 800s. at the outside hospital , a right upper lobe infiltratewas also noted and she was given gentamicin 250 mg times one , andclindamycin 600 mg. she was diagnosed with pneumonia and treatedwith clindamycin , this caused resolution of her white count at theoutside hospital. she also had an increase in her lasix andlisinopril dose there , as well as her amiodarone. she was startedon solu-medrol 40 mg intravenous q.6 hours for possible asthma.she did quite well after her treatment for pneumonia and treatmentfor pulmonary edema , and was transferred to the misutch university hospital for further management.her last admission was on 2/7 to the ceter medical centerfor atypical chest pain , when she had a nondiagnostic exercisetolerance test. she went 6 minutes and 19 seconds with a maximumheart rate of 94. her chest pain then was ultimately attributed toa gastrointestinal cause.past medical history: coronary artery disease status post inferiormyocardial infarction on 4/27 she was lastadmitted , as noted above , on 2/7 to the lordchild hospital for atypicalchest pain. the patient has sick sinus syndrome and is status postdual chamber pacemaker in 6/19 diabetes mellitus. hypertension.paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , well-controlled in the past onamiodarone. past rhythm monitoring has revealed brief runs ofventricular tachycardia. negative breast biopsy in 3/13medications: home medications include amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d. ,glyburide 5 mg p.o. q.d. , lopressor 50 mg p.o.b.i.d. , prempro 0.625/2.5 p.o. q.d. , lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q.d. ,coumadin , nitroglycerin sublingual , zantac , beclomethasone , andventolin.medications on transfer , lovenox 60 mg b.i.d. , aspirin 325 p.o.q.d. , lisinopril 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. , clindamycin 600 intravenousq.8 , digoxin 0.25 , lopressor 100 mg b.i.d. , zantac , albuterol ,flovent , solu-medrol , and amiodarone 300 mg once a day.allergies: the patient is allergic to penicillin.social history: the patient has a ten pack year smoking historyand quit in 1968. no intravenous drug use. sheis retired from medical records at sgh . she has three grownchildren and she is married.physical examination: physical examination on admission issignificant for a blood pressure of 114/93 ,this is down from a very high blood pressure on admission at theoutside hospital which was in the 200s. pulse is 60 , temperatureis 96.5 , saturating 97 percent on two liters. general , this is anagitated woman in no acute distress. her neck veins were about 5.0to 6.0 cm of water. the lung examination showed a few crackles inthe left base with the right one clear. cardiovascular examinationrevealed a split s1 and normal s2 , also a soft s3 , the presence ofa 2/6 systolic ejection murmur at the right upper sternal borderwas noted. the abdomen was benign , no hepatosplenomegaly noted.the extremities showed no edema , with intact distal pulses.neurologically , the patient was alert and oriented times three withno focal deficits , but careful neurologic examination wasimpossible due to severe agitation and anxiety.laboratory data: laboratory on admission was significant for atroponin of 0.02 , ck of 80 , inr of 1.3 ,hematocrit of 38.0 , bun/creatinine of 24/0.6.hospital course: mrs. digerolamo was admitted to the aley coness-o meoak medical center and managed by problems as follows.flash pulmonary edema: the initial concern for mrs. kozicki was ofthis being an ischemic event causing her to have flash pulmonaryedema. however , coronary catheterization revealed the patient tohave clean coronaries. echocardiogram revealed a left ventricularhypertrophy with a low normal systolic function , with an ejectionfraction of 50 to 55 percent. there was akinesis of the inferiorwall present. she had normal right ventricular size and function.she had 1 to 2+ mitral regurgitation with mild left atrialenlargement and 1+ tricuspid regurgitation with a regurgitivevelocity of about 2.7 meters per second consistent with minimalpulmonary systolic pressures. subsequently the patient was notedto have had a history of hypothyroidism in the past , and she hadnormal tsh recently checked by her primary care physician , dr.slipper , of tch . however , with no other etiology present , wewere worried about the patient having had tachyarrhythmia from someother source causing this. the electrophysiology serviceinterrogated the patient's pacer which revealed a number oftachyarrhythmias. a tsh panel was checked which revealed a tsh ofless than assay , and t4 free thyroxin index elevated. anendocrinology consultation was obtained , and they believed that thepatient's thyrotoxicosis was amiodarone induced. she was startedon tapazole 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. they also suggested prednisone , butthe patient did refuse this. they recommended follow-up withendocrine in about four to six weeks. therefore , the finaletiology for the patient's flash pulmonary edema was amiodaroneinduced thyrotoxicosis causing increased susceptibility totachyarrhythmia , left ventricular hypertrophy , and possiblediastolic dysfunction , resulting in acute pump dysfunction , causingflash pulmonary edema. the final therapy for this problem willconsist of heavy nodal blockade. the patient will be blockadedwith calcium channel blockers , as well as lopressor.pneumonia: the patient was treated with clindamycin and did quitewell. her white count fully resolved and she had no fever or othersymptoms of pneumonia. she will be discharged without any furtherantibiotics.urinary tract infection: she had a lot of uric crystals , thereforeshe was placed on bactrim double strength b.i.d. times a total ofseven days.psychiatry: the patient has clearly severe anxiety and was in afull panic attack on admission. she was treated acutely withativan and her problem resolved quite well , and she became morecomfortable in the hospital.diabetes mellitus: glyburide was held initially on admission. shewas covered with insulin sliding scale. glyburide was restarted onthe day of discharge. the patient was noted to have relativelyhigh blood sugars , and these should be followed as an outpatient.blood sugars as high as the mid 300s were noted.edema: the patient clearly had some fluid accumulation whichresolved with 20 mg of lasix p.o. q.d. we will continue this andallow outpatient follow-up to determine whether or not she willneed this in the future.discharge medications include: amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d. ,lisinopril 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,tapazole 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. , zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , coumadin 5.0mg p.o. q.p.m. , bactrim double strength one tablet p.o. b.i.d.times four days after discharge , prempro 0.625/2.5 mg p.o. q.d. ,glyburide 5 mg p.o. q.d. , lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d. , atenolol 150 mgp.o. q.d. , diltiazem cd 240 mg p.o. q.d.disposition: the patient was discharged home in good condition.final diagnosis: thyrotoxicosis.follow-up: she will follow-up with dr. provins on monday , 9/18at 9:30 a.m. , and dr. orejel of chia memorial hospital endocrinology at u hay rill , on 7/16 at 3:00p.m.dictated by: markus traficante , m.d. la93attending: osvaldo h. conduff , m.d. wc6wp735/7723batch: 64140 index no. b8gr7x78af d: 3/10t: 1/15cc: 1. boyce f. marwick , m.d. xu63 , blooby honor hospital , ette , utah 080292. lenny m. panny , m.d. xk73. columbus shihadeh , m.d. hs1