record #779313412199450 | mmc | 19767604 | | 228600 | 5/12/1997 12:00:00 am | unstable angina | signed | dis | admission date: 5/12/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 4/16/1997principal diagnosis: gastroenteritis , resolved. atypical chestpain , gi versus cardiac.history of present illness: ms. dodd is a 60 year woman withpast medical history significant fordiabetes , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , smoking ,gastroesophageal reflux and hypertension. two days prior toadmission , she ate some chinese food in the evening and felt somemild stomach upset. one day prior to admission , she ate theleftovers of this chinese food and again , felt stomach upset. ashort time later , she began vomiting food and water but no blood.this continued , up to and including the day of admission. shedeveloped some left sided epigastric pain under her left ribs andin her left upper quadrant. this radiated to her back but nowhereelse. she cannot describe the pain other than to say it is "reallybad."review of systems: notable for shortness of breath walking up her15 stairs and shortness of breath with doingdishes , requiring a break every fifteen minutes.in the emergency department , she continued to have emesis of smallamounts of clear fluid and food. she had one episode of witnessedemesis of small clumps of red blood in the emergency department.during one episode of emesis , she had abdominal pain which shedescribed as radiating also to her left chest and this was relievedwith two sublingual nitroglycerin.past medical history: as above , plus remote history of pepticulcer disease.family history: positive for diabetes.social history: the patient came to this country from iowawhen she was 38 years old. she is a retireddomestic worker. she is widowed and lives with her daughter. shehas a home health aid three times a week. the patient has smokedone pack per day of cigarettes for twenty years.allergies: contrast dye causes a rash and itching.medications on admission: insulin nph 44 units q. a.m. , 22 unitsq. p.m. , insulin regular 14 units q.a.m. , 5 units q. p.m. , mevacor 10 mg p.o. q. day , lisinopril 20 mgp.o. q. day.physical examination on admission: afebrile , pulse 66 , bloodpressure 142/50 , respiratoryrate of 12 , oxygen saturation 98% on two liters. in general , thepatient is a comfortable , mildly heavy woman. she has moist mucousmembranes. there is no jugular venous distention. her lungs areclear in all fields. her heart is in a regular rate and rhythm ,with somewhat distant heart sounds. there is no murmur heard.her abdomen is completely benign , with good bowel sounds. herliver and spleen are not palpable. there is no peripheral edema.laboratories: admission ekg revealed a normal axis , normal sinusrhythm , with some mild t-wave flattening in v5 andv6. chest x-ray on admission was normal.hospital course: cardiovascular: the patient was started onintravenous heparin in the emergency departmentand written for rule out mi protocol. her cks were mildlyelevated , between 500 and 600 , with normal mb fractions. hertroponin levels did not reveal any evidence of cardiac ischemia orinjury. the heparin was stopped after she ruled out for myocardialinfarction. she continued to have some mild abdominal pain ,however these episodes were always associated with concurrentnausea and vomiting. the abdominal pain was immediately relievedafter she vomited. this resolved after three days , and she wasscheduled for an exercise treadmill test with mibi. the patientwent six minutes on a manual protocol treadmill. she went at aslow rate and did not complete stage one. she had 1/2 to 1 mm spdepressions which were flat in one to two leads. she had somevague chest heaviness , which technically qualified as symptomatic ,however the technician stated that there suspicion was that it wasmore fatigue. because the chest was formally positive but withstill no suspicion for significant ischemia , a mibi scan wasperformed. this demonstrated mild ischemia with exercise in 4 of25 inferior segments only. after her gi distress resolved , thepatient had no further episodes of chest pain. although thepatient may have some coronary artery disease , it is not felt thatthis is actively symptomatic in her. she will be followed up inclinic and started on beta-blocker and/or nitrates if she has clearsymptoms of anginal pain.gastrointestinal: the patient was admitted with obviousgastroenteritis. she did not have any diarrhea with theseepisodes. she was treated with a mild diet and antiemetics asneeded. her gi symptoms resolved after three days and she iseating well at the time of discharge. she was started onomeprazole 20 mg p.o. q. day for her heartburn pain.diabetes: the patient was followed during this admission by dr.walezak , her primary endocrinologist. her blood sugar controlswhile here were excellent. she was given a container for a routine24 hour urine collection for protein , to be completed as anoutpatient.health maintenance: the patient was started on nicoderm patchesand advised to stop smoking. she received her flu shot while here.medications: enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day. insulinnph 35 units q. a.m. , 18 units q. p.m.. insulinregular sliding scale q. a.c. and q. h.s.. insulin regular 12units q. a.m. , 5 units q. p.m.. mevacor 10 mg p.o. q. day.omeprazole 20 mg p.o. q. day. lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q. day.nicotine patch seven mg per day.discharge condition: good.disposition: the patient is discharged to home with ongoing vnaservices.follow up: she will follow up in my clinic on 3/18/97 at 9:40a.m.dictated by: fabian radebaugh , m.d. uz07attending: britt s. heiney , m.d. qe21qu484/8417batch: 62721 index no. wwgieq6eqd d: 0/27/97t: 6/13/97[report_end]