record #258452828335755 | seh | 19736440 | | 6284873 | 6/0/2006 12:00:00 am | hematuria | signed | dis | admission date: 1/28/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/19/2006attending: borgerding , weston m.d.admission condition: stable.admission diagnosis: foley trauma.history of present illness: this is a 61-year-old male withhypotension , diabetes , and obesity. he was in his usual state ofhealth until june , 2006 , when he had a sudden loss of functionof his lower upper extremity and lower right extremity. he wasadmitted to lihiltcat medical center neurology service , wherean mri revealed a right internal capsule lacunar stroke. he wasout of the tpa window. as a result , he was treated with aspirinand statin. an echo showed a normal ef and no evidence ofthrombosis. there was no evidence of a-fib. his hospitalcourse , however , was complicated with foley trauma and hematuriafor which he required continuous bladder irrigation. the patientalso developed a uti by ua , but not a positive culture data. thepatient was seen briefly by urology , who recommended continuedbladder irrigation and followup. he was then treated withceftazidime x3 and the patient was discharged to rehab on junewith a chronic bladder irrigation and urology followup for a uturogram.the patient did fairly well in rehab until the day prior toadmission , which was on june , 2006 , after one day of beingdischarged from rehab when , during a physical therapy session ,the patient accidentally manipulated the foley catheter causingincreased pain and worsening hematuria. so , then the patientcame to the ed the next day after the patient was alreadydischarged. the patient came to the ed on june , 2006. thepatient was hemodynamically stable but complained of severepelvic pain and received 10 mg of iv morphine , dilaudid ,percocet , valium and ativan. the patient then becameincreasingly sedated and developed an o2 requirement , and waseventually on lung non-rebreather. by the time he was admittedto the medicine floor , the patient was very sedated and difficultto arouse. abgs showed a 7.25/71/90 and he received 0.04 mg ofnarcan. he immediately awoke; however , then continued to becomesedated within 30 minutes. as a result , the patient was sent toicu on march , 2006. the patient had systolic blood pressure inthe 60s and was given narcan and iv fluids. however , thesystolic pressure only responded to 90s. the patient alsocomplained of diffuse abdominal pain. however , kub showed anonspecific bowel gas pattern. the patient was required tocontinue narcan boluses and his abg started to show improvement.it was 7.33/56/113 on 100% non-rebreather. during the overnighticu stay , the patient did very well. eventually , the patient washemodynamically stable with systolic pressure maintaining verywell over 100 with a jvp over 10. the patient was more awake thenext day after admission to icu overnight.hospital course by systemcardiovascular: as a result , the patient was hypotensive on thefloor at the beginning due to being over-narcotized in the ed.systolic pressure dropped to the lowest in the 60s. however ,after the icu stay , as well as boluses with narcan iv fluids , thepatient's blood pressure returned to be stable , with systolicblood pressure above 100. the patient's echo was also normal theweek before and there were no signs of systolic dysfunction. thepatient was continued on aspirin and statin and , after the icustay , the patient was transferred back to the floor and thepatient's cardiovascular was stable and the patient'santihypertensive regimen was resumed. the patient's heart ratewas usually maintained between 50 to 67. at times , the patient'slopressor has to be held due to the low heart rate. as a result ,lopressor was titrated down from 25 mg to 12.5 mg b.i.d. thishappened during the hospital stay. the patient also resumed backon his captopril 6.25 mg t.i.d. the patient was admitted to thefloor on telemetry and throughout the 3-4 days prior todischarge , the patient was stable on the floor and remainedcardiovascularly and hemodynamically stable. the patient wascontinued on statin and aspirin.pulmonary: the patient has weaned off the non-rebreather afterthe stay from icu and has been satting well between 96-97% on 3-4liters. the patient's lungs have remained cleared and thepatient's lasix has resumed at 20 mg daily due to the patienthaving a negative lasix of 40 mg daily. the patient was resumedback to his original regimen upon discharge. the patient has hadminimal crackles during his stay here in the hospital.infectious disease: the patient was given vancomycin andceftazidime in the setting of hypotension and concern forpossible sepsis at the beginning. however , due to no growth todate with the blood cultures , the infectious etiology ofhypotension is unlikely. as a result , antibiotics were notcontinued when the patient was transferred back to the floor.urology: the patient continued to have hematuria upon admissionto the micu , likely secondary to foley trauma. the patientcontinued to have chronic continued bladder irrigation for thefollowing two days after discharge from the micu. under theevaluation by the urologist , the patient does not need chronicbladder irrigation anymore. the urologist suggested that thebladder has actually stopped bleeding with clear urine drained.of note , the patient was very agitated at one point on the secondday upon discharge from the micu and pulled the foley out , whichcreated a trauma to the bladder neck. however , the bleedingstopped very quickly and the urologist placed a second foley intothe bladder without any complications. urology recommended thatthe patient be followed by dr. anderson veley as an outpatient. intheir opinion , the patient does not have any urological symptoms ,and the patient should have the foley for the following 4-5weeks. per urology , the patient may not be able to control hisbladder due to the stroke that the patient had the week before ,so the patient will need chronic foley for the next 4-5 weeksuntil followup with the urologist in the office. the patient'shematocrit has been stable at 29 throughout the hospital stay.endocrinology: the patient has a history of diabetes andcontinued to have nph and subcutaneous heparin.renal: the patient had prerenal azotemia at one point prior totransfer to the floor due to hypotension. however , the patient'screatinine recovered dramatically from 1.5 to 0.7 upon discharge.the patient also had an obstruction in which the patient wasunable to void , which created a postrenal azotemia at one time ,but both prerenal and postrenal azotemia have resolved upondischarge.neuro: mental status intact. the patient has been doing verythroughout the two days prior to discharge. the patient wasalert and oriented x3. however , the patient occasionallycomplained about the leg pain from the side in which the patienthas lost motor function. the patient remained to have lefthemiparesis and required 100 mg neurontin t.i.d. for pain controlregimen. otherwise , the patient was evaluated by both , will befollowed by neurology on may , 2006.diet: the patient had normal cardiac diet and the patient willcontinue on the diet when the patient is discharged to rehab.prophylaxis: the patient should resume his lovenox 40 mg dailyand the patient should have aspirin and nexium for prophylaxis.psychiatry: the patient was given ambien 10 mg p.o. at bedtimefor sleep and he responded very well with the regimen. thepatient was also given seroquel for anti-anxiety medication.medications:1. aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily.2. captopril 6.25 mg p.o. daily.3. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.4. lovenox 40 mg subcutaneous daily.5. pepcid 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.6. lasix 40 mg p.o. daily.7. lantus 35 units subcutaneous each morning covered with a risssliding scale.8. lopressor 25 mg p.o. t.i.d.9. zocor 40 mg p.o. each night time.10. ambien 10 mg p.o. each night time.11. neurontin 100 mg t.i.d.allergies: no known allergies.social history: the patient used to live in ryn pkwy with hisdaughter , but now with his stroke , the patient will stay inrehab.family history: diabetes and history of stroke.discharge condition: stable.discharge medications:1. tylenol 1 gm p.o. q.i.d.2. aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily.3. duoneb 3/0.5 mg inhalant form q.4h. p.r.n. wheezing.4. bacitracin and neomycin for the topical t.i.d.5. bacitracin on the urinary meatus due to the continued use of afoley , topical b.i.d.6. captopril 6.25 mg p.o. t.i.d. ( hold is systolic pressure isless than 95 ).7. nexium 20 mg p.o. daily.8. lasix 20 mg p.o. daily. we did not resume the patient's homeregimen of lasix and patient's discharge medication will continueto be lasix 20 mg p.o. daily.9. insulin aspartate 8 mg subcutaneous ac and hold if the patientis npo.10. novolog sliding scale.11. lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.12. nicotine patch 21 mg daily.13. seroquel 25 mg p.o. q.6h.14. zocor 40 mg p.o. bedtime.15. ambien 10 mg p.o. bedtime.escription document: 7-6681142 pssten teldictated by: angon , carmineattending: gullion , eliseodictation id 4813766d: 3/10/06t: 3/10/06[report_end]