990258070 | thah | 89247164 | | 971531 | 9/14/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 9/14/1994 report status: signeddischarge date: 8/3/1994discharge diagnosis: unstable angina/coronary artery disease.secondary diagnoses: 1 ) hypertension.2 ) hypercholesterolemia.3 ) tobacco use.4 ) diabetes mellitus.history of present illness: the patient is a 54 year old womanwith longstanding hypertension ,coronary artery disease ( status post two vessel coronary arterybypass graft in 1992 ) , hypercholesterolemia , positive tobacco use ,positive family history for coronary artery disease , adult onsetdiabetes mellitus , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , pepticulcer disease ( with history of gastrointestinal bleed ) , and stableangina who presented with rest angina in a crescendo pattern notrelieved by sublingual nitroglycerin. the patient had no chestpain history until 1992 when she presented with chest pain and hada markedly positive exercise tolerance test. she had recurrenttypical chest pain and fatigue at 3 minutes and 45 seconds onstandard bruce protocol with a maximal heart rate of 129 , maximalblood pressure 120/80 , and 1 mm st depressions. patient wastreated medically but returned with chest pain at rest. cardiaccatheterization revealed single vessel coronary artery disease ( 80%mid right coronary artery ) for which a ptca was attempted but wascomplicated by dissection so the patient had an emergent saphenousvein graft to the right coronary artery and lima to the leftanterior descending. patient was on an intraaortic balloon pumpwhen she developed a cold right lower extremity and had an emergentright femorofemoral bypass. the patient did well until 2/11 ( withrare episodes approximately four per year of rest angina whichbegan approximately six months post-coronary artery bypass graftand were all relieved by sublingual nitroglycerin ) when shedeveloped worsening right lower extremity claudication requiringangioplasty. in 4/17 , recurrent right lower extremityclaudication prompted a femoropopliteal bypass. the patient wasnow currently contemplating repeat femoropopliteal bypass. on theday of admission , the patient had an approximately four hourepisode of chest pain while visiting with her daughter. thepatient did not have sublingual nitroglycerin with her at the time.upon returning home , the patient obtained relief with onesublingual nitroglycerin ( patient had described the pain at 9/10with left chest to axilla pain and no other radiation ). thepatient was able to sleep. the patient awoke in the morning andshortly thereafter , had chest pain which was not relieved with onesublingual nitroglycerin. therefore , the patient came to theemergency department. the patient had repeat episodes of chestpain while in the emergency department and no ekg changes werenoted. two sublingual nitroglycerins resolved each episode.past medical history: 1 ) longstanding hypertension. 2 ) pepticulcer disease/upper gastrointestinal bleedin the 1970s. the patient had an upper gi series/colonoscopy whichwere negative per the patient. the patient had an ongoing stablepattern of gastritis/gastroesophageal reflux disease that wasminimized by avoiding fatty foods. 3 ) adult onset diabetesmellitus. 4 ) chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with nohospitalizations or intubations and currently not on any therapy.5 ) hypercholesterolemia. 6 ) vascular disease as above. 7 )status post herniated disc.current medications: lopressor 50 mg/25 mg/50 mg , pepcid 20b.i.d. , procardia xl 60 q.d. , enteric coatedaspirin 500 mg q.d. , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg q.d. , elavil 50 mgq.h.s. , and k-dur 20 meq q.d.allergies: 1 ) amoxicillin which caused hives and a rash. 2 )fish which caused nausea , vomiting , and pruritus.social history: the patient was a retired operating roomtechnician. 2 ) patient had significant tobaccouse of three packs per day times 35 years decreased to one pack perday in the last two years. 3 ) alcohol was none since 1992 withone beer per night prior to that.family history: mother who died of a cerebrovascular accident ,otherwise non-contributory.physical examination: this revealed an obese middle-aged woman whowas feisty but in no acute distress. hertemperature was 98.2 , heart rate 84 , blood pressure 122/74 , andrespiratory rate 16. heent: extraocular movements intact , pupilsequally round and reactive to light ( but left slower to react ) andoropharynx benign. neck: no lymphadenopathy , thyromegaly withoutnodular feeling , 2+ carotids without bruits , and jugular venouspressure approximately 7 cm. lungs: coarse dry crackles at thebilateral bases with decreased breath sounds throughout. cardiac:point of maximal intensity was not appreciated , regular rate andrhythm , normal s1 , s2 was split , and no s3 , s4 , or murmurs.abdomen: soft , non-tender , non-distended , obese with nohepatosplenomegaly , and no femoral artery bruits with 1+ palpablepulses bilaterally. extremities: trace pretibial edemabilaterally with 1+ right dorsalis pedis pulse and trace leftdorsalis pedis pulse. rectal: occult blood negative ( peremergency department physician ). neurological: grossly non-focalexcept for 4/5 right lower extremity proximal muscle strength , 1+deep tendon reflexes throughout , and toes downgoing bilaterally.laboratory examination: on admission was notable for a hematocritof 49 and first ck of 19. chest x-rayshowed no active disease. ekg showed a normal sinus rhythm of 90 ,axis 70 degrees , normal intervals , no st or t wave changes , no leftventricular hypertrophy , and no change as compared with 4/17 .hospital course: the patient was first ruled out for a myocardialinfarction and the patient did , in fact , ruleout. the patient did have some recurrent chest pain episodesin-house , again with no ekg changes , relieved with sublingualnitroglycerin. her anti-ischemic regimen was intensified and thepatient underwent a dobutamine mibi which revealed inferiorischemia with a minimal work-load. cardiac catheterizationrevealed that her saphenous vein graft to the right coronary arteryhad stenosed which was successfully ptca to 20% residual stenosis.slow competitive flow was seen in the lima but the lima to the leftanterior descending was patent. the patient did wellpost-procedure.disposition: patient is discharged to home with close follow-up byher primary physician.discharge medications: 1 ) atenolol 100 mg q.d. 2 ) lasix 40 mgq.d. 3 ) vasotec 10 mg q.d. 4 )nitroglycerin sublingually p.r.n. 5 ) axid 150 b.i.d. 6 ) serax15 mg q.h.s. 7 ) elavil 50 mg q.h.s. 8 ) enteric coated aspirin325 q.d. 9 ) glipizide 7.5 mg q.a.m.dictated by: bobby mongillo , m.d. uf19attending: darrell w. korzybski , m.d. df3  ws970/6385batch: 50985 index no. lqdvrc1aou d: 3/7/96t: 3/26/96