625433852fih376737025103/5cy116099610/1/1994 12:00:00 ammetastatic cancer to the liver .unsigneddisreport status :unsignedadmission date :10-01-94discharge date :10-10-94principal diagnosis :metastatic cancer to the liver .associated diagnosis :diabetes mellitus , peripheral neuropathy , rectal carcinoma , premature ventricular contractions , right hemidiaphragmatic paralysis .special procedures and operations :10-02-94 left hepatectomy , 10-01-94 celiac and superior mesenteric angiogram .history of present illness :the patient is a 60 year old diabetic who underwent an apr in 1989 for rectal carcinoma and has been doing following radiation therapy and 5fu .he recently developed fatigue and dyspnea and workup disclosed a large liver mass which was biopsied and revealed to be poorly differentiated neoplasm most consistent with metastatic rectal discontinued .past medical history :remarkable for diabetes mellitus , premature ventricular contractions , rectal carcinoma , diabetic neuropathy both peripherally and involving the right diaphragm .medications on discharge :diabeta 10 mg. po. bid .serax 20 mg. po. qhs .sudafed 30 mg. po. bid .theo-dur 300 mg. po. bid .betoptic 0.5% one drop ou bid , propene 0.1% one drop ou bid , pred-forte 1% one drop os bid , percocet two tabs. po. q4hours prn .proventil 2 puffs q6hours prn .past surgical history :includes and abdominoperineal resection in 1989 .allergies :no known drug allergiesphysical examination :demonstrated an obese man in no acute distress .the blood pressure 140/75 , pulse 90 and irregular , respirations 20 .the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat and neck examinations were unremarkable .cardiac examination was remarkable for frequent ectopic beats .the lung examination was clear but breath sounds were more pronounced on the left than the right .abdomen :soft , obese with mild epigastric and right upper quadrant tenderness .an intact colostomy was present .no masses could be palpated secondary to the patient 's extreme obesity .extremities :unremarkable .the neurological examination was remarkable for a peripheral neuropathy including decreased sensation in the lower extremities with decreased strength in the upper and lower extremities most pronounced in the legs and feet .a chest x-ray demonstrated right hemidiaphragmatic elevation .the electrocardiogram was remarkable for trigeminy at 91 per minute .hospital course :the patient was admitted and underwent celiac and superior mesenteric artery angiography which demonstrated a patent celiac and superior mesenteric artery with normal branching pattern .his preoperative workup was completed and included a normal white count , hematocrit 42 .normal electrolytes , normal coags and normal renal function .on 10-02-94 the patient was brought to the operating room where he underwent exploratory laparotomy and left hepatectomy and cholecystectomy by dr. duhenile .the patient tolerated the procedure well with a 2000 cc. blood loss and was autotransfused two units of blood .in the postoperative course mr. fyfe did surprisingly well given his underlying medical condition . ,he did require two units of transfused blood but otherwise did quite well and was extubated on the night of surgery .he remained in the intensive care unit for two days but was hemodynamically stable throughout .he continued to manifest occasional premature ventricular contractions , but these were unchanged from preoperatively and the patient otherwise did well .his nasogastric tube was discontinued and he was begun on clear liquids and subsequently advanced to a regular diet without difficulty .both of his jackson-pratt drains were removed without incident .by postoperative day # 7 , mr. fyfe was tolerating a regular ada 1800 kilocalorie diet without difficulty with all of his tubes and drains removed .his wound was noted to be healing well and his colostomy functioning appropriately without significant difficulty .he is being transferred back to the per naplesspecrycet hospital in stable condition on the same medications which he was on preoperatively .these include diabeta 10 mg. po. bid .serax 20 mg. po. qhs .sudafed 30 po. bid .theo-dur 300 mg. po. bid .betoptic 0.5% one drop ou bid , propene 0.1% one drop ou bid .pred-forte 1% one drop os bid .percocet two tabs po. q4h prn .proventil 2 puffs q6hours prn ..the patient will followup with dr. fede duhenile in two weeks in dr. duhenile 's office .lenni breutzoln , m.d.dictating for :fede a. duhenile , m.d.tr :eb / bmotdd :10-10-94td :10/09/94cc :stat