record date: 2076-08-29august 29, 2076dr. galvaninternal medicine associatesrm 309re:  	quijano, donny 	smc unit # 544-84-52dear dr. galvan:i had the pleasure of seeing your patient, mr. quijano, in followup for episodes of dyspnea, in the setting of asthma, gastroesophageal reflux, myasthenia gravis and distant coronary disease.he reports that his    spasms    of unpredictable exertional breathlessness have continued to be substantially in remission, occurring less than once a week and sometimes only every two weeks.  swallowing is fine with fewer choking episodes when he drinks water, but no problem with the ingestion of other substances.  no cough, phlegm, lower extremity edema, chest pain or chest infections.no reflux symptoms.sneezing spells and coryza, especially in the morning, have been most noticeable in the past several months.he enjoyed his trip to romania, and had only two days when he had a couple of minor spells.medications:  advair, 100/50, one puff b.i.d. (continues the 10 second breath hold); lisinopril; atenolol; mestinon; metformin; no proton pump inhibitor.on examination, he is his usual fit-appearing self.  blood pressure is 130/70, respiratory rate 18 and unlabored, heart rate 55 and regular.  conjunctivae are clear.  sinuses nontender.  nasal passages are narrowed but without inflammation.  oropharynx:  mild crowding in the posterior pharynx, but there were no definite exudates.  no goiter or adenopathy.  back:  normal configuration.  chest:  normal percussion note, faint prolongation of the expiratory phase without definite wheezes.  cardiac:  vague cardiac impulse, 1/6 systolic mid to late systolic murmur at the apex, jvp 8 cm with borderline hjr, no s3.  abdomen:  soft, scaphoid, nontender, no hepatosplenomegaly or mass.  extremities:  no cyanosis, clubbing or edema.  skin:  well tanned.pulmonary function tests today show regression of the fev1 from 2.09 liters on 6/27 to 1.72 liters, similar to the 1.62 liter value of 6/13, with an fvc that has decreased from 3.47 on 6/27 to 2.8 liters now, although with an fet of only 8.5 versus 14.3.ct scan today, by my review - a tiny nodule in the extreme right apex, mildly thickened bronchi in the extreme left lower lobe, status post mediasternotomy with diffuse calcification of the coronary arteries.impression:episodic dyspnea due to asthma, with underlying excellent functional status and because of his stoicism and fitness, with the variability in pulmonary function on testing correlating well with a slight increase in the frequency of his occasional episodes, because of the asthma and allergies, he may benefit from singulair.probable mild occult gastroesophageal reflux.ischemic coronary disease, status post vf arrest and revascularization.myasthenia, mainly ocular.prior raynaud's syndrome.recommendations:continue advair at the current dose.trial of singulair, 10 mg p.o. q. p.m.low threshold for adding a proton-pump inhibitor and/or intranasal steroids.continue exercise program.return visit in three months with pulmonary function tests at that time.it has been a pleasure to participate in his care.sincerely yours,dean s. nye, m.d. dsn/yarnell/kr