184742191 | asmh | 11101800 | | 9948506 | 10/10/2003 12:00:00 am | rt. ankle osteoarthritis | signed | dis | admission date: 8/25/2003 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/1/2003date of discharge: 11/1/2003attending: rod glembocki mdadmission diagnosis: right ankle fusion.discharge diagnosis: status post right ankle fusion andpneumonia.secondary diagnoses: cleared history of heart transplant ,history of rheumatic fever , diabetes mellitus type 1 ,gastroesophageal reflux disease , chronic renal insufficiency , andosteoporosis.history: the patient is a 65-year-old woman with history ofrheumatic heart disease and endocarditis ultimately requiringheart transplant in august of 1993 , diabetes mellitus type #1 ,and chronic renal insufficiency with baseline creatinine of 1.8.he was admitted on february , 2003 , for elective right anklefusion. about 1 year prior to admission , she fell down stairsand had a right pilon fracture initially treated with castimmobilization. the patient noted persistent right lower leg andankle deformity and daily aching pain and decided with herorthopedic surgeon to have an elective right ankle fusion. aftersurgery , her vitals were 100.3 , 111 , respiratory rate of 18 ,oxygen saturation of 98% upon 70% face mask. exam was notablefor decreased breath sounds with wheezing with a positive s4.jvp was difficult to assess. extremities were warm with pittingedema. labs were notable for cyclosporin levels 133. ekg showedno significant change consistent with june , 2003. she wasstarted on iv lasix diuresis for proper fluid overload , as shehad received 4 l intraoperatively. she developed low-grade feverand then up to 102 , and had left calf pain on palpation. aspiral ct was sent that was negative for pe , dvt , or chf , butpositive for atelectasis. the bun to creatinine ratio trendedupwards up to 31/2.3 from 29/1.7 on admission and then she wastransferred to cardiology 3 for management of hypoxia , fever ,acute and chronic renal failure , and developing hypertension tothe 90s , systolic from a baseline of 105. she was transferred tocardiology on may , 2003. her vitals on transfer were tmax 100.4 to current 99.2 , pulse 99 to 108 , currently 99 , bloodpressure was ranging to 90 to 102 over doppler to 60.respiratory rate of 18 , 97% on high flow of 100% oxygen. onphysical exam , she had bibasilar inspiratory crackles , leftgreater than right and tachycardia around 100. extremities werewarm with trace edema in the left lower extremity. her labs atthat time were notable for white count of only 6.5. creatinineof 4.1 from 2.3 , and bun of 41. she had a portable chest x-raythat showed cardiomegaly and bilateral atelectasis with focalopacity at the left lung base. ekg showed normal sinus rhythmwith 97 beats per minute. no st changes , q wave inversions in v1and v3 , with rsr prime pattern. v1 that showed rs duration of 80milliseconds , not significantly changed from february , 2003.echocardiogram on january , 2003 , had shown an ejectionfraction of 50% to 55% with mild left ventricular enlargement andpreserved systolic function , mild posterior and lateralhypokinesis , normal right ventricular size and function , mitralvalves mildly thickened with mild mr. stress echocardiogram onfebruary 2003 , showed no inducible ischemia. there was adobutamine protocol. right heart cath in february of 2003 ,showed a right atrial pressure of 21 , pcwp is 28. this time , shewas started on lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d , the labs were negative forrejection.past medical history: as noted above , rheumatic heart diseasestatus post heart transplant in 1993 , diabetes mellitus type 1 ,gerd , chronic renal insufficiency , baseline creatinine of 1.8.in 1985 , had septic stroke with brain abscess postoperativestatus post mvr. history of mrsa , osteoporosis. status postcholecystectomy.outpatient medications: mag oxide , tums p.r.n. , niferex ,lexapro , multivitamin , colace , nexium , lasix , cyclosporin ,prednisone , imuran , cozaar , cardizem , aspirin , nephrox ,pravachol , fosamax , nph 60 units q.a.m. 10 units q.p.m.allergies: penicillin causes rash , codeine causes severe nauseaand vomiting.social history: quit smoking in 1978 , rare alcohol , no iv druguse.physical examination: on admission , vitals were notable foroxygen saturation in the 84% range on room air and tachycardia.hospital course:musculoskeletal: the operation was without complications withminimal bleeding. she had a right leg cast placed after theprocedure. she has been followed by the orthopedic surgery teaminitially on their service and then as a consulting team , onceshe was transferred to medicine. she was able to move her toeswith the splint in place and there were no orthopediccomplications from the procedure. she will follow up with dr.rutecki on march , 2003. she also worked with physicaltherapy to peripheral functional status and will need physicaltherapy as an outpatient 3 to 5 times per week. her motion islimited by decreased strength in the upper extremities , whichprevents her from performing nwb gait.cardiovascular: initially it was difficult to assess whether shewas volume overloaded or euvolemic given the hypotension , butelevated right heart filling pressure before the admission and achest x-ray that also revealed fluid in the fissure on the right.she had poor urine output as well so she was given lasix 120 mgiv b.i.d. , to which she did not respond and the lasix drip wasstarted. she was transferred to the ccu for possible sepsisbecause her blood pressure continued to drop to the 60 and 70systolic and required dopamine iv. once she was transferred tothe ccu , a swan-ganz catheter was placed , which revealed svr of689 , and cardiac output of 5.8 consistent with sepsis. the rightheart filling pressures were high also. she was continued on ivlasix with good urine output response in the micu and then wassubsequently transferred back to the cardiac team when herhemodynamic status was improved. for ischemia , she was givenaspirin and her home pravachol for her ischemic risk factorsincluding diabetes and high cholesterol. when she returned tothe floor , her diuresis remained good off the lasix , possiblyrelated to post atn diuresis and her ins and outs remainednegative. she was given her home prednisone 5 mg q.d. as well asher home cyclosporin. she was also continued on imuran.infectious disease. given the chest x-ray findings , she wastreated for pneumonia initially with broad covers withvancomycin , azithromycin , and levofloxacin. all the blood andurine cultures were negative. the workup for her infection wasnegative and was presumed that she had community-acquiredpneumonia , and it responded well to levofloxacin 10-day course.the vancomycin was discontinued in the micu and the ceptaz wascontinued when she was transferred back the floor. on physicalexam on the day of discharge was improved with only faintinspiratory crackles at the right base. she had two mrsa narescultures that were negative and a third one was pending on theday of discharge. stool cultures were sent that were negative aswell as sputum gram stain and culture that was negative.renal: in the postoperative course , her creatinine rosedramatically to the 5 range , also the possible etiology wasmultifactorial including dye load with the ct , spiral , as well ashistory of chronic renal insufficiency likely from diabetes andchronic cyclosporin use. she was seen by renal consult andduring the course of the micu stay , her renal function improveddramatically back to the baseline and in the interim , she wasgiven sevelamer for high phosphorus , but it was discontinued whenthe phosphorus level came back normal.gastrointestinal: she was continued on nexium , lactulose , anddid not report any gi discomfort.hematology: she was given subcu heparin for prophylaxis andniferex.endocrine: during the period of hypotension , she was given testdose steroids with hydrocortisone , and she responded well to thisand when she returned to the cardiology floor , her hydrocortisonewas tapered and she was then placed back on her home prednisone.she was continued on her home nph 60 units in the morning and 10units at night. she did develop some hypoglycemic episodes thatwere asymptomatic , the lowest glucose was 37 , so the evening doseof nph was reduced to 4 units. she was also covered with insulinsliding scale while on steroids.respiratory: she was breathing comfortably on room on the day ofdischarge.neurology: she did have some waxing and waning of her mentalstatus during the setting of hypotension and fever , although shehad a baseline slowed response to questioning. she was markedlyslower to respond to questioning but normally oriented to placeand person. by the time she was discharged she was back to herbaseline mental status as confirmed by her husband at bedside.discharge medications: aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. , imuran 15 mgp.o. q.d. , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , heparin 5000 units subcub.i.d. , nph human insulin 60 units subcu q.a.m. nph human insulin40 units subcu q.p.m. regular insulin sliding scale subcu q.a.c.and h.s. , lactulose 30 mg p.o. q.d. , niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,nystatin cream topical b.i.d. , prednisone 5 mg p.o. q.a.m. ,pravachol 40 mg p.o. q.h.s. , cyclosporin 15 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,diltiazem extended release 300 mg p.o. q.d. , miconazole nitrate2% topical b.i.d. , nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d. , magnesium oxide 400 mgp.o. q.d. , combivent 2 puffs inhaled q.i.d. , p.r.n. shortness ofbreath , lexapro 20 mg p.o. q.d. , fosamax 70 mg p.o. q. week.discharge condition: stable.discharge instructions: the patient will follow up withorthopedics dr. hodnett on march , 2003. physical therapyneeds to work with the patient 3 to 5 times a week to improve hermobility and functional status as per physical therapyrecommendations during her stay here. please call lecer nigein sotarnock university medical center or look in the medical records to see what her third mrsaculture report is for nares culture , if it is negative , then shehas had 3 negative mrsa cultures and does not need to be in mrsaprecautions any longer.she needs to follow up with the heart transplant service in 2 to4 weeks at pen broadl memorial hospital .escription document: 9-2471886 issten telcc: carl vicic m.d.thasstown community hospitals clark lihensherbhope dr. , na pendlos lacc: ricardo mordue mdmondfull callrangesnohisacc: craig aitkinrance vei narenchale rd. , sto woodjose a , new york 47813dictated by: makarem , corneliusattending: ryzinski , oscardictation id 9539323d: 4/7/03t: 4/7/03