record #800347320576184 | rmpmhhs | 83903416 | | 3710584 | 6/30/2004 12:00:00 am | chronic obstructive pulmonary disease | signed | dis | admission date: 10/12/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 0/9/2004attending: omar sommese m.d.discharge date and time:the patient is being discharged from the medical intensive careunit at 1:00 p.m. on the 0/9/2004 . disposition:the patient is to be discharged to ant university hospital today.admission date:the patient was admitted to trote hospital on10/12/2004 and was admitted to the medical intensive care unit on4/25/2004 . principal diagnoses:the patient was admitted to biand valley general hospital with thediagnosis of changes in mental status secondary to hypercarbia.the patient was admitted to medical intensive care unit withhypercarbic respiratory failure.past medical history:significant for copd , chf , cad , non-insulin-dependent diabetesmellitus , renal insufficiency , chronic venostasis , cellulitis ,obesity , gout , sleep apnea , asthma , hypertension , urinaryretention , degenerative joint disease of the right knee. thepatient is status post cabg 1999 three vessels. the patient hasan 80-pack-year smoking history. the patient is on two liters ofnasal cannula at home. the patient is full code.history of present illness:the patient is an 80-year-old gentleman with a long history ofcopd who is on 2 liters of nasal cannula at home with80-pack-year of smoking history.briefly , the patient is an 80-year-old gentleman who was admittedto astine emount wallca medical center on 10/12/2004 with drowsiness andslurred speech. initial abg showed ph of 7.25 , pco2 of 82 , po2of 56 , sating 87%. he quickly awakened after narcan wasadministered. recently , he had been taking an increased amountof opiates for pain and he was admitted with a diagnosis ofhypercarbia secondary to increased opiate intake and copd flare.the patient had a long history of copd. he has an 80-pack-yearof smoking history and is normally on 2 liters of nasal cannulaat home. he was initially treated for copd on the floor andgiven gentle hydration as he also suffers chronic renalinsufficiency. he was given percocet for pain control. thepatient appears to be improving by serial arterial blood gasses.had decrease in creatinine and improved mental status. at 11:00a.m. on the 4/25/2004 the patient was found breathless andpulseless. at that time , his abg showed a ph of 7.04 , pco2 of95 , po2 of 47 , he was sating 54%. an acls code was 1. thepatient received 1 mg atropine and 0.04 of narcan. he appearedto be aspirating when intubated. he was admitted to the medicalintensive care unit where he was until 0/9/2004 , when he wasdischarged.allergies: the patient has questionable penicillin allergieswith unknown reaction.pertinent physical exam:in general , the patient is an obese hispanic male who is sedatedand intubated. he responds to commands and is oriented to voiceon admission to the medical intensive care unit. his skin showedhis lower extremities with changes of chronic venostasis. he haderythema to the knees , nonpitting edema bilateral to the kneesand induration of skin on legs , medial thigh , and bilateralpopliteal fossae. his feet had onychomycosis bilaterally with noclearcut abrasions or cuts. the rest of his skin exam wasremarkable for multiple ecchymoses , one weeping plaque on theabdomen at heparin injection site. his right subclavian line wasnontender and nonerythematous with one leaking port. head andneck exam: his pupils were equal , round and reactive to light andaccommodations. his extraocular movements were intact. hisoropharynx was clear. his endotracheal tube and og tube were inplace. his chest sounds were clear anteriorly. he had decreasedbreath sounds laterally. he had isolated wheezing at the leftmidclavicular line. his heart sounds , s1 and s2 were heard. hisabdomen was obese. he had a large panus , no appreciableorganomegaly , tenderness and hyperactive bowel sounds.extremities: he was moving all four extremities spontaneously.they were warm and perfused. neurologically , his cranial nerveswere grossly intact. there were no focal anomalies.on addition , the patient had a sodium of 140 , a potassium of 5.4 ,chloride of 104 , carbon dioxide of 24 , bun of 72 , creatinine of2.1 , glucose of 153. she had an ionized calcium of 1.04 andmagnesium of 2.1.hospital course by problem:1. pulmonary. the patient was admitted to the micu withhypercarbic respiratory arrest and aspiration pneumonia persymptoms , signs and chest x-ray. given the history and timing ofthe arrest , the patient likely was hypercarbic secondary to copdexacerbation , as hypercarbic arrest occurred several days inhouse where opiates were not administered. it is highlyimprobable that the arrest happened secondary to opiate ingestionrather patient likely had copd exacerbation. also , the patienthas significant cardiac history of chf and cad , which may havecontributed. subsequent chest ct on the floor demonstrated thatin addition the patient had very significant pleural effusions.the patient was treated for aspiration pneumonia withlevofloxacin and flagyl and aztreonam. he was also treated withalbuterol atrovent nebulizers. aggressive physical therapy wasalso provided for the patient. the patient after completing hisantibiotic treatments for aspiration pneumonia was noted to havemrsa growing in his sputum. he was given a 14-day course ofvancomycin as well to treat mrsa pneumonia. to help thepatient's pulmonary status , significant diuresis was attempted.the patient was typically diuresed at 1-2 liters per day. theaggressive diuresis was estimated to have taken in theneighborhood of 15-20 liters of the patient and this likelyremarkably helped the patient's breathing status and his abilityto get off the ventilator. the patient had a tracheostomy andpeg placed on 6/8/04 and began breathing on trache collar onthe 9/18/04 and has been breathing until the present timesuccessfully on trache collar.2. id. the patient was diagnosed with aspiration pneumonia. hewas also colonized with mrsa and vse by the end of his course.during his initial micu admission he was diagnosed withvancomycin sensitive enterococcal uti. he was treated withantibiotics for all of these. his aspiration pneumonia wastreated with levofloxacin , aztreonam and flagyl. subsequent mrsapneumonia was treated with vancomycin. the patient has not had ,at the time of admission , white count or a significant fever andhis cultures two days prior to discharge have been negative.3. cardiovascular. the patient has a significant cardiachistory for chf and cad. his heart rhythm has been mostly stableduring the course of his hospitalization. hypertension has beentreated with lopressor.4. renal. the patient has a history of chronic renalinsufficiency. however , renal function had improved during thepatient's hospital course. at the time of discharge , the patienthad a creatinine of 0.9 , a bun of 38 , a potassium of 3.9 and acreatinine of 0.9. presumably , the aggressive diuresis that wasconducted did not affect the patient's renal function adversely.5. endocrine. the patient has a history ofnon-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. he was put on lantusand insulin sliding scale , by the end of his day he was on 80units of lantus plus requiring additional insulin on the slidingscale.code status:the patient is full code. the proxy for the patient is hisdaughter , picot , who was actively involved in the patient's care.nutrition:the patient was fed on jevity tube feeds during most of hismedical icu course.discharge physical exam:the patient's physical exam was notable for a tracheostomy inplace with a clean site of insertion. gj tube placed in theabdomen with a clean surgical wound. clear sounding lungs withbreath sounds that can be heard more extensively than before fromthe anterior side , resolving chronic venostasis and with thoseexceptions the patient's exam remain similar to his admissionexam. in general , the patient is interactive , alert andoriented.discharge medication:include tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. pain , acetylsalicylicacid 325 mg p.o. q. day , dulcolax 10 mg p.o. q. day , hold ofdiarrhea , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , fentanyl patch 75 mcg perhour topical patch , change every 72 hours or hold if there is achange in mental changes , lasix 120 mg p.o. q. day , haldol 4 mgp.o. q.4h. p.r.n. for agitation , insulin sliding scale ,subcutaneous insulin every four hours , if the blood sugar is lessthan 110 , give 0 units , if the blood sugar is between 111 and130 , give 1 unit , if the blood sugar is between 131 and 150 , give2 units , if the blood sugar is between 151 and 200 , give 3 units ,if the blood sugar is between 201 and 250 , give four units , ifthe blood sugar is between 251 and 300 , give 6 units , if theblood sugar is between 301 and 350 , give 8 units , if the bloodsugar is greater than 351 , then contact the officer. lactulosep.o. q.6h. p.r.n. constipation , ativan 2 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n.anxiety , milk of magnesia 30 ml p.o. q.d. p.r.n. constipation ,lopressor 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. hold if systolic blood pressure isless than 100 or heart rate is less than 55 , senna tabs two tabsp.o. b.i.d. , multivitamins , zocor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , avoid grapejuice or grape fruit with this medication , lovenox 40 mgsubcutaneously everyday , k-dur slow release of potassium 20 meqp.o. q.d. , zyprexa 10 mg g tube b.i.d. , miconazole nitrate 2%powder topical tp b.i.d. , nexium 20 mg p.o. , lantus 80 unitssubcutaneously q.h.s. , please give the patient half a dose if heis n.p.o. , duoneb q.6h. p.r.n. for shortness of breath.code status:the patient is full code and the health care proxy is khachatoorian .escription document: 0-6528334 emssten teldictated by: bastardi , peteattending: rummell , kendalldictation id 3080733d: 1/28/04t: 1/28/04[report_end]