029770980 | cwbhc | 05930410 | | 938359 | 1/3/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | unsigned | dis | admission date: 7/28/1994 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 8/12/1994discharge diagnosis: left leg wound infection.history of present illness: ms. ploss is a 67-year-old femalewith a history of diabetes , whounderwent a coronary artery bypass graft on 26 of october for unstableangina with non-q wave myocardial infection. she did wellpostoperatively and was discharged home in good condition. abouttwo weeks after her operation , she began to notice some swellingand erythema around her left thigh saphenous vein graft harvestsite. this increased and she came to the emergency room on17 of march .  she denied any fever , chills , night sweats , nausea , orvomiting. she stated there was a small amount of purulentappearing liquid draining from the wound.past medical history: significant for noninsulin dependentdiabetes , hypertension , coronary artery disease ,hypercholesterolemia , supraventricular tachycardia , hiatal hernia ,osteoarthritis , chronic right ear abscess , and schizophrenia.past surgical history: significant for coronary artery bypassgrafting x3 with the left internal mammary artery to the leftanterior descending artery , and saphenous vein grafts to theposterior descending artery and the obtuse marginal artery.physical examination: temperature 100.4 , with her other vitalsigns stable. her heart rate was regularwith a regular rhythm and no murmur. her heart rate was 98 , andher blood pressure was 104/58. her lungs were clear toauscultation , and her sternum was stable. her left thigh waserythematous around the wound , with a large area of induration.she had good distal pulses , and her left foot was warm. the thighwound had an area of necrotic appearing skin.hospital course: the staples were removed in this area ,and a large amount of pus was extracted.some of this was sent for culture. the areas of necrotic skin weredebrided and after copious irrigation , the wound was packed withsterile gauze soaked in normal saline. she was started onvancomycin and gentamicin intravenously , and was admitted to thehospital for iv antibiotics and dressing changes. her culturesgrew out staph aureus which was methacillin resistant , butsensative to gentamicin and vancomycin , as well as citrobacter ,which was sensative to gentamicin and vancomycin.she remained hemodynamically stable , and her white count came downfrom 14 to a stable level of 7-8. her temperature on the secondday after admission was 99.6 , and never rose higher than that. theerythema in the area of her wound decreased markedly , and sheremained pain free. the wound began to granulate very well , andthe lower portion of the wound remained clean and dry , while theupper portion required three different debridements over herhospital course. after this , however , the entire wound remainedclean and well granulated.the dressing changes were continued and the patient was screenedfor the rehabilitation service to follow up with some strengtheningand iv antibiotics and dressing changes. a follow-up culture wasobtained after one of the dressing changes , which grew out e. coli ,which was sensative to cipro , ofloxacin , citrobacter , andenterococci. all species have been sensitive to ciprofloxacin.the patient was changed from vancomyin and gentamicin to vancomyiniv and ciprofloxacin p.o. she will receive a total of 14 days ofvancomycin , and seven days of ciprofloxacin , after seven days ofgentamicin.she was accepted for rehabilitation by woodwa herscotl kuaen region medical center , and on 25 of september , she was discharged to wellma sgriff hospital in good condition. she will continue on an1800 calorie ada diet , and her discharge medications includeaspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day , atenolol 100 mg q. day , librium 10 mgp.o. b.i.d. , cipro 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. x3 days , vancomycin 1000 mgiv q. 24 hours x3 days , colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. , iron sulfate 300mg p.o. t.i.d. , verapamil 60 mg p.o. t.i.d. , prolixin la 12.5 mgintramuscularly q. two weeks. she should have dressing changeswith wet to dry normal saline gauze to her left thigh wound threetimes each day , as well as wound inspections to make sure that itcontinues healing as well as it is now. she will follow-up withdr. danser and with her own cardiologist.dictated by: brandon christiansen , m.d. zf89attending: marcos s. yetter , m.d. rx5  vb727/2800batch: 738 index no. ewmv429fte d: 9/6/94t: 9/6/94cc: 1. fax to tiange bradbene memorial