record #768474151011166 | mnh | 56650502 | | 6005775 | 7/8/2003 12:00:00 am | stroke | signed | dis | admission date: 7/8/2003 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/5/2003attending: al damian dumbar mdadmitting diagnosis:stented basilar occlusion.additional diagnosis:none , q-wave myocardial infarction.operations/procedures:cardiac catheterization done on 0/7/03.history and reason for hospitalization:this is a 70-year-old female with a history of coronary arterydisease , diabetes mellitus , hypertension and ____ fibrillationmanaged on aspirin and plavix who presents to the maven health emergency department complaining of lethargy , diplopiaand vertigo. further information regarding her symptomatology isnot currently available as the patient's initial mental statuswas quite poor.past medical history:significant for hypertension , diabetes , glaucoma ,hypercholesterolemia , history of alcohol abuse , history ofcoronary artery disease.medications on admission:not available currently in detail but included aspirin 325 mg andplavix 25 mg p.o. q.d.allergies:she is allergic to nsaids , penicillin and diltiazem.physical examination upon admission:revealed her to be lethargic , obese. her face is slightlyasymmetric with some left cheek swelling. her neck revealed nobruits. her heart was irregularly irregular. her lungs revealedbibasilar crackles. her extremities had 1+ pitting edemabilaterally. neurologic examination: the only focal findingswere a transient skewed deviation of her eyes. furtherinformation regarding this is not currently available. focalweakness and numbness were not delineated upon initialevaluation.summary of hospital course:the patient was admitted to the neurology intensive care unitgiven her initial imaging findings. these findings were that shehad an occlusion , flat high-grade stenosis of the distal basilarartery. there was no acute infarction noted. based on thesefindings , she was admitted to the neurology intensive care unitand placed on intravenous heparin. her neurologic statusgradually improved throughout her hospitalization. she did notcomplain of diplopia after the first day of her hospitalization.she also was quite awake after the first day of herhospitalization. repeat magnetic resonance imaging done on9/18/03 revealed a new left cerebellar infarct with persistenthigh-grade stenosis of the basilar artery which did appear a bitmore patent than the initial scan done on 9/2/03. at the timeof her discharge , she was being transitioned from heparin tocoumadin and she was neurologically intact. with regard to hercardiovascular status , the patient initially ruled in for an mibased on positive cardiac markers. her peak troponin-i was 11.02and her peak ckmb was 18.4. she had lateral t-wave inversionsthat were new compared to her old ekgs. she was brought to thecardiac catheterization laboratory where it was found that shehad multiple moderate stenoses but without any high-grade orcritical stenoses. she was found however to have an elevatedwedge pressure of approximately 30 cm. echocardiogram done on11/26/03 revealed an ejection fraction of 60%. she had a mildlydilated left atrium. it was found that she had moderatetricuspid regurgitation. her pulmonary artery pressures wereelevated to 51 ml of mercury. she also is found to have moderatemitral regurgitation. based on the findings of hercatheterization and elevated wedge pressures , the patient wasdiuresed relatively aggressively. she was also given high dosesof beta-blockade. her troponin and ckmb levels did decreaseafter this. she remained weight controlled with beta-blockade.there was some discussion of possibly cardioverting her , butgiven her recent stroke this will be deferred. with regard toher blood pressure management , she has been managed while at aninpatient with hydralazine and lopressor. a decision was madenot to introduce an ace inhibitor at this time given her recent_____ and her baseline renal insufficiency ( 1.8-1.9 ). theaddition of an ace inhibitor may be indicated at some point inthe near future.discharge plan:the patient will be discharged to mitent healthhospital.follow up plans:the patient will see her primary care physician , marco kenouo ,at the department of medicine on 3/4/04. she will see dr.doyle ghamdi of neurology on 9/1/03 at 4 p.m. she will see dr.toney montagna at the department of cardiology on 2/3/04.discharge medications:aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , heparin drip being transitioned tocoumadin 5 mg p.o. q.d. with goal inr of 2-3 , folic acid 1 mgp.o. q.d. , hydralazine 75 mg p.o. q.i.d. , metoprolol 125 mg p.o.t.i.d. , simvastatin 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , cosopt 1 drop o.u. b.i.d. ,nexium 20 mg p.o. q.d. , lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.escription document: 1-9501007 emssten teldictated by: goodnight , zacharyattending: niedzwiecki , jerome westondictation id 8541855d: 1/4/03t: 1/4/03[report_end]