record #818404514414960 | ocmh | 44300452 | | 439016 | 7/26/2002 12:00:00 am | chronic heart failure , hip fracture | signed | dis | admission date: 9/5/2002 report status: signeddischarge date: 0/14/2002admission diagnosis: left hip fracture.secondary diagnoses: 1. fat emboli syndrome.2. congestive heart failure.3. decubitus ulcers.history of present illness: mr. lumadue is a 68-year-old man whocame in with a chief complaint of hippain after a mechanical fall. the patient had been hospitalized in3/0 for ischemic right toes requiring debridement and amputation.at that time , his hospital course was complicated by a non-q wavemi. cardiology have recommended medical management with lopressorat that time and an echocardiogram revealed an ejection fraction of45%. dobutamine mibi revealed a severe fixed perfusion defect inthe inferoposterior and inferoseptal left ventricle without anyperi-infarct ischemia. ejection fraction by mibi imaging was 26%in contrast to the echo results. the patient was ultimatelydischarged on lopressor , however , she stopped taking the lopressorfor unclear reasons. for the few months prior to admission , hedeveloped increasing dyspnea on exertion with paroxysmal nocturnaldyspnea and increasing pedal edema , as well as nocturia , however ,denied any orthopnea , any chest pain , fevers , melena , bright redblood per rectum or palpitations. a few days prior to admission ,the patient developed a dry cough and some rhinorrhea.on the morning of admission , the patient sustained a mechanicalfall while trying to retrieve a newspaper. he had nolight-headedness , palpitations , pain in his chest , nausea orvomiting , sweating or change in vision or sensory symptoms prior toor after the fall. the patient fell onto his left side andimmediately developed left-sided leg and hip pain for which shepresented to the emergency room at fentstraub neycian's medical center .past medical history: coronary artery disease , cardiomyopathy( ischemic ) , peripheral vascular disease , status post amputation of right-sided toes , status post rightfemoral to pt avascularization , diabetes type ii , status post cva , hypertension.medications: hctz 50 mg p.o. q.d. , enteric-coated aspirin 325 mgp.o. q.d. , zestril 20 mg p.o. q.d. , glyburide 5 mgp.o. q.d. , multivitamins , cough medicine p.r.n.allergies: aminoglycosides , unknown reaction.social history: the patient has a history of smoking one pack perday x40 years , quit five years prior to admission.he has one drink of liquor per day , lives at home alone in targtine highway , birm , vermont 21711 , and is in the insurance business.family history: notable for mother died of cancer at 74. fatherdied at 55 of heart disease. mother died at 50 ofa heart attack.physical examination: vital signs: afebrile , temperature 97.3 , heart rate 106 , blood pressure 162/77 , oxygenation 94% on room air. general: he was alert and oriented.lungs: clear. heart: regular rate and rhythm. pelvis: stable.his left lower extremity had well-healed scars from donor site forbypass grafting , strong dopplerable pt and dp pulses. his left legwas externally rotated. sensation was intact to light touch.laboratory data: sodium 135 , potassium 4.4 , chloride 102 , bicarb19 , bun 56 , creatinine 2.5. white count 12 , hematocrit 33 , platelets 388. ptt 40.5 , inr 1.2. ekg showed sinustach at 102 , with occasional pvcs , normal axis , normal intervals , no evidence of ischemia. chest x-ray showed bilateral pulmonaryedema. x-rays of his left pelvis and femur revealed fracture ofthe left intertrochanter and subtrochanteric fracture with lessertrochanteric fracture intact by 3 cm , less than five degreesangulation. his femoral head was reduced.impression: a 68-year-old man with significant cardiac historyand vascular disease , status post left hip fracturewith mechanical fall , with pulmonary edema noted on chest x-ray.hospital course: 1. cardiovascular - initially , the patient wasto be admitted to the orthopedic service withmedicine consult for wrist stratification. however , the patientwas transferred to the medicine service for further evaluation andmanagement. the patient was noted to have a troponin leak althoughck enzymes remained negative for ischemia. he had a mibi performedwhich revealed an unchanged fixed defect. he remained in sinustach with occasional pvcs and runs of nonsustained ventriculartachycardia lasting 3-4 beats at a time throughout his admission.sinus tach was attributed pain and discomfort , possibly withelement of hypoxia contributing as well. a troponin leak wasattributed to strain particularly in the setting of histachycardia. he was started on beta blocker , ace inhibitor andcontinued on an aspirin. he was aggressively diuresed withafterload reduction. he was titrated upward as noted.2. pulmonary - the patient's crackles persisted on lung exam afteraggressive diuresis , prompting performance of a chest ct whichrevealed an interstitial pattern with peripheral nodularityconsistent with fat emboli syndrome , positive component ofcongestive heart failure and aspiration pneumonia as well. thepatient was continued on a regimen of lasix for diuresis and wastreated for aspiration pneumonia as noted below. his oxygenrequirement diminished over a few days and he was maintained on twoliters of nasal cannula oxygen at the time of transfer to rehab.3. renal - the patient developed some renal failure in the settingof diuresis , which improved with hydration. the patientsubsequently tolerated further diuresis with improvement in hiscreatinine and it is possible that renal failure is due to fatemboli syndrome as well and should improve slowly.4. id - the patient was treated with vancomycin , flagyl andlevofloxacin for presumed aspiration pneumonia , course completed5/6/02. the patient remained afebrile. his white blood count onadmission and discharge was 12.5. neurologically - the patient apparently had baseline mildperfusion. the possibly worsened due to the fat embolic syndromeand was at baseline prior to discharge per the patient's daughter.6. heme - the patient was continued on lovenox 60 mg subcu. b.i.d.for prophylaxis against dvt post-hip surgery to continue for sixmonths minimal followed by orthopedic surgery.7. gi - the patient developed some diarrhea. c. diff. cultureswere negative to date at the time of discharge. the patient wasmaintained on nexium prophylaxis in the setting of hisanticoagulation.8. endocrine - the patient was restarted on oral hypoglycemicsprior to discharge in addition to sliding scale insulin. thepatient had a foley and a triple lumen catheter , both of which wereremoved on 5/6/02. the patient was evaluated by plastic surgeryfor his peripheral vascular disease with ulcers. recommended drysterile dressings to the right and left foot wound changed q.d.with duoderm to the left lower leg wound to be changed q.3 days ,with pressure sore prevention.9. fen - the patient was discharged on standing 20 meq of k-durq.d. it is likely to be checked q.o.d. to monitor for any furtherrequirements particularly in the setting of his runs ofnonsustained v-tach as noted above.10. ortho - the patient is followed daily by orthopedic surgeryand was discharged with staples on his left lower extremities to bediscontinued per orthopedic surgery recommendations in the future.11. disposition - the patient was stable for discharge to rehab on8/18/02. he was to follow up with his primary care physician ,orthopedic surgery , cardiology , and pulmonary medicine within thenext two weeks. his labs are to be drawn for a metabolic panel ,magnesium and calcium q.o.d. for as long as the primary carephysician feels it is necessary with repletion of his electrolytesas needed. he is to have physical therapy performed as needed.his weightbearing status is non-weightbearing on the left lowerextremity and weightbearing as tolerated on his right lowerextremity per orthopedic surgery at the time of discharge.discharge diet: ada diet , low fat , low cholesterol , low salt.discharge medications: enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. ,lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , hold forsystolic blood pressure less than 100 or heart rate less than 55 ,lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q.d. , hold for systolic blood pressure lessthan 100 , lasix 100 mg p.o. q.d. , lovenox 60 mg subcu. b.i.d. x6months , glipizide 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. , sliding scale insulin , nexium20 mg p.o. q.d. , silvadene wet-to-dry dressing , please appy drysterile dressing to right and left foot wound to change q.d. applyduoderm to left lower leg wound and change q.3 days , continuepressure care precautions.dictated by: evan hoblit , m.d. xj782attending: enoch haddaway , m.d. fv88sj564/025538batch: 3727 index no. wiceec84u0 d: 6/12/02t: 6/12/02[report_end]