078503676 | rmh | 86859978 | | 228829 | 7/16/1993 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 6/4/1993 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/20/1993discharge diagnosis: legionnaires' disease.history of present illness: the patient is a 43 year old womanwith no significant past medicalhistory who presented with fevers , chills , sweats , shortness ofbreath , pleuritic chest pain , cough inducing vomiting of white toyellow fluid , myalgias , burning epigastric pain , and diarrhea allover the last five days. the source was the patient via spanishinterpreter , the patient was a poor historian , and her old chartwas missing at the time of admission. she denied any cardiac orpulmonary history though she did have an admission to the ea health in 2/10 for shortness of breath. clinicaldiagnosis was apparently flash pulmonary edema as she had a normaladmission chest x-ray which later revealed mild pulmonary vascularredistribution consistent with congestive heart failure. she wasruled out for a myocardial infarction and had an exercise tolerancetest which was negative for ischemic disease. she says she has hadincreasing dyspnea on exertion over the past six weeks withsubsternal chest pain after climbing two flights of stairs.several weeks ago and again the day of admission , she has hadtwo-pillow orthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. she waswell overall until five days ago when she started developing thefollowing symptoms: 1 ) "bone pain" first in her hands and thenall over. 2 ) fevers ( although she did not take her temperature ).3 ) chills. 4 ) drenching sweats. 5 ) anorexia. 6 ) increasingshortness of breath worsening over the week. 7 ) pleuritic chestpain worse with inspiration and laying on her left side. 8 ) coughand/or white vomitus ( one apparently induces the other but thepatient cannot distinguish which ). 9 ) nose bleeds. 10 ) neckpain. 11 ) sore throat. 12 ) burning epigastric pain. 13 )abdominal bloating and diarrhea. 14 ) black stools times one day.15 ) overall malaise. she denies hemoptysis , weight loss ,photophobia , neck stiffness , runny nose , sneezing , radiation ofchest pain , dysuria , lower extremity edema , bright red blood perrectum , or melena. past medical history: negative for asthma ,tuberculosis , or hiv risk factors. it is otherwise significant forone episode of pulmonary edema of unclear etiology as noted above.her echo at that time was significant for a left ventricularejection fraction of 54% with increased left atrial size and mildmitral regurgitation/aortic insufficiency. her exercise tolerancetest was significant for not going nine minutes on a standard bruceprotocol with a peak heart rate of 150 stopping secondary tofatigue with blood pressure of 170/80 and no chest pain or ischemicchanges. current medications: tylenol p.r.n. allergies: noknown drug allergies. family history: father with hypertension inhis sixties , mother died of a vaginal cancer at a young age ,daughter has asthma , and brother has hypertension. social history:she is separated , lives with three of five children , works as acleaning lady in various buildings in ford , no tobacco , lastsmoked at the age of 14 , and no alcohol or intravenous drug use.she did have a history of exposure to typhus in her familyrecently. review of systems: she had a weight gain of two poundsover the past two months , her last period was during the week priorto admission , and was shorter than usual.physical examination: the patient had a temperature of 100.8 , aheart rate of 150 , blood pressure of 120/80 ,respiratory rate of 30 to 35 , and o2 saturations of 93 to 96% onthree liters. she was mildly orthostatic on admission. general:she was a tachypneic spanish speaking woman in moderate respiratorydistress. heent: remarkable for dry mucous membranes and a whitecoating over her tongue but no erythema or exudate of her posteriorpharynx. neck: supple with tender submandibular shotty adenopathybilaterally. no jugular venous distention or thyromegaly. lungs:remarkable for diffuse crackles scattered throughout both lungfields , louder in the mid and lower lung fields bilaterally , and noegophony or dullness. heart: remarkable for tachycardia andnormal s1 and s2 without murmurs , rubs , or gallops. back:revealed mild tenderness to palpation at both costovertebral anglesand there was no spinal tenderness. abdomen: soft with moderatetenderness to deep palpation in the epigastrium , there was norebound or guarding , she had normal bowel sounds , nohepatosplenomegaly , no murphy's sign , and no masses. extremities:no cyanosis , clubbing , or edema. skin: without rash.neurological: examination showed her to be alert and orientedtimes three , cranial nerves ii-xii were intact , and motor andsensory examinations were intact. there were no cerebellarfindings and her reflexes were 1+ of the upper extremities and 0 atthe knees with toes downgoing bilaterally.laboratory examination: on admission , sodium was 137 , potassium4.2 , chloride 102 , bicarbonate 24 , bun 15 ,creatinine 0.9 , and glucose 145. her white blood cell count was20.7 with 71 polys , 14 bands , 9 lymphocytes , 4 monocytes , and 2metamyelocytes. her hematocrit was 45% and her platelet count was322 , 000. her room air blood gas revealed a po2 of 66 , o2saturation of 94.1% , ph of 7.46 , pco2 of 34 , and an hco3 of 25.ekg was remarkable for sinus tachycardia at 152 beats per minutewith flat t waves in her limb leads and v5 and v6 , there were noacute st or t wave changes. when compared with prior ekg from2/10 , the rhythm was much faster but in sinus. her chest x-raywas remarkable for diffuse interstitial lung disease , increasedcompared with a prior chest x-ray of 10/3 her liver functiontests were unremarkable on admission.hospital course: after admission , the patient was started onintravenous bactrim and intravenous erythromycinin legionella doses to cover her broadly for this interstitialpneumonia. sputum inductions were done for toluidine blue , gramstain , and culture and sensitivity which were negative. an hivtest was sent which was also negative making the diagnosis of pcpvery unlikely. she had legionella antibody and urine antigenssent. although the urine antigens are pending , the legionellaantibody came back positive at 1:256. at this titer , the diagnosisof legionnaires' disease was made. until this titer came back ,however , the diagnosis was not as clear and the patient had a ppdplanted with anergy panel. this ppd was negative and the patientwas not anergic. pulmonary consultation was obtaind to considerbronchoscopy as the patient could not produce sputum for the firstseveral days of her admission. as she was improving , the decisionwas made to hold off on bronchoscopy. a typhus antibody was sentgiven her possible exposure to typhus and that is still pendingalthough unlikely to be the case given her improvement on bactrimand erythromycin and the fact that she has a positive legionellatiter. her gastrointestinal symptoms initially were felt to beprobably gastrointestinal complaints related to legionellalegionnaires' disease. stool cultures were sent and eventuallycame back negative and she was started on intravenous pepcid laterswitched to p.o. pepcid. she was also vigorously hydrated for herlosses in her diarrhea. the cause of her marked sinus tachycardiawas unclear although it was probably secondary to stress. herheart rate eventually came down with fluids although she was notmarkedly orthostatic on admission. with fluid repletion , her heartrate did come down and subsequent ekg revealed that she was not inav flutter with a 2:1 block but indeed was in sinus tachycardia.over the subsequent days , her heart rate eventually normalized.her o2 saturations initially were in the low nineties with threeliters. with erythromycin , her hypoxia markedly improved and bythe time of discharge , she was 98% on room air. as noted over thesubsequent days , she became afebrile with stable blood pressure andimproving respiratory rate and o2 saturations. this improvement ,however , took at least two to three days before it became clearthat she was heading in the right direction. during her earlycourse , she started to have some abdominal distention with markeddiscomfort in her belly. a nasogastric tube was placed withsuction and she was made npo. her amylase and lipase were normal.meanwhile , her white count did markedly improve and it appearedthat all of these symptoms were probably secondary to her primarylegionnaires' disease. cold agglutinins eventually came backnegative and her mycoplasma titers are pending. subsequent chestx-ray revealed that patient's process was at least radiographicallystable although she was clinically better. as noted above , herwhite count improved and she remained afebrile except for singleepisode of low grade fevers on 1/3 immediately prior todischarge. she was thus watched for an additional day and wasdischarged afebrile feeling well. her course was also remarkablefor an increase in her alt to 100 from a normal baseline probablyon the basis of bactrim toxicity. after her legionella titers cameback as well as her hiv being negative , her bactrim was stopped andshe was switched from intravenous to p.o. erythromycin. shetolerated the switch well without any complications. she receiveda total of seven days of intravenous erythromycin and wasdischarged with a two week course of p.o. erythromycin.disposition: patient will follow-up in tere forestor- medical center clinic in two weeksfor follow-up of her legionella pneumonia. dischargemedications: pepcid 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. times four weeks ,erythromycin 500 mg p.o. q.i.d. times two weeks , tylenol 650 mgp.o. q.6h. p.r.n. , and maalox 30 cc p.o. q.6h. p.r.n.dictated by: king d. bish , m.d. jh7attending: seymour e. trant , m.d. xg7in357/7683batch: 4622 index no. enmbd87s7u d: 5/24/93t: 1/26/93