record #828964037061753 | ncpumc | 63134887 | | 477589 | 0/24/1995 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 4/16/1995 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/19/1995principal diagnosis: myocardial infarctionsecondary diagnoses: hyperlipidemiahistory of present illness: mr. legions is a 54 year old professorat a no sa , statuspost coronary artery bypass graft ( 5 vessel bypass ) 8 years ago whopresents with recurrent substernal chest pain times one day. thepatient was transferred from phlukester hospital after developing theacute onset of substernal chest pain while driving his automobile.the patient was under no extraordinary circumstances ( e.g.emotional stress , exertional stress ) at the time he developed chestpain. since the time of his five vessel cabg in 1987 , the patienthad experienced no intercurrent angina.the patient's coronary risk factors include a positive familyhistory and a previous diagnosis of hyperlipidemia. however thepatient does not have hypertension , diabetes and he is not atobacco smoker.as mentioned , the patient's chest pain was substernal and radiatedto the upper epigastrium. he experienced an element of burningwith exertion. prior to this episode of recurrent chest pain , thepatient had had multiple exercise tolerance tests which were readas normal. he graded the chest pain at 8/10.the patient presented to g urgent care where his pain was notrelieved with four sublingual nitroglycerin. an ekg demonstratedlateral st wave depressions. the patient was transferred toskaggssin hospital where iv tng , morphine and nifedipine were given.the patient's pain decreased to a level of 4/10. despite thesemaneuvers , the patient's pain continued through the night and inthe morning. in the morning , he received additional morphine andiv heparin was begun. subsequently the patient became pain-free.the patient was transferred to ck health of forfurther management.past medical history: hyperlipidemia. bilateral anterior andlateral thigh achiness with exertiontimes six months ( workup in progress ).medications: on presentation to menjack hospital medical center ,lovastatin 40 mg q q.m. , 20 mg q p.m. andenteric-coated aspirin one tablet q day.medications on transfer from a,xo community hospital iv nitroglycerin , iv heparin , nifedipine sl , morphine aswell as aspirin and lovastatin.the patient has no known drug allergies.family history: the patient's father developed angina secondaryto coronary artery disease at age 54 and diedat age 75 from an mi.social history: the patient is married and lives at home withhis wife. he works as a professor atrieglemoinesro a shing and restores buildings in his free time.habits: the patient denies tobacco use. he is anoccasional alcohol drinker.physical examination: on physical examination , mr. latimer isa pleasant middle-aged man , mildlyanxious but in no acute distress. vital signs on transfer:temperature 98.6 , heart rate 78 , blood pressure 110/78 , respiratoryrate 22 with oxygen saturation of 99% on 4 liters of oxygen.heent: unremarkable. neck: no jugular venous distention ( jvpless than 6 cm ) , carotids were 2+ bilaterally with no bruits ordelayed upstroke. lungs: clear with good breath soundsbilaterally. coronary: regular rate and rhythm with good heartsounds and a clear sl and s2. there were no rubs , murmurs orgallops appreciated. there was no s3 or s4. the point of maximumimpulse was not displaced. the patient's spine was not tender andthere was no evidence of costovertebral angle tenderness. abdomenhad good bowel sounds and was soft and nontender to palpation. nomasses were palpated. groin demonstrated decreased femoral pulsesbilaterally with a faint left femoral bruit. rectal: normalrectal tone with an anodular prostate. stool was soft , brown andguaiac negative. extremities demonstrated no clubbing , cyanosis oredema. the patient's pulses at the dorsalis pedis and posteriortibialis were 2+ bilaterally. neurologic examination was nonfocal.electrolytes on presentation were within normal limits. his lftswere notable for a slight increase in his ldh to 252. thepatient's first ck on presentation was 2300 with a quantitative mbof 10.2 ng/ml. cholesterol was 79. albumin 2.8. protime 12.4 ,inr 1.1. ptt 40.7 , consistent with heparin therapy. cbc wasnotable for a normal white count , hematocrit and platelet count.urine had a specific gravity of 1.021 , ph 5 , negative dipstickevaluation.chest x-ray demonstrated clear lung parenchyma and no bonyabnormalities. ekg on admission to raldmance mountbayshowed normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 73 with normal intervalsand an axis of 0. the patient had q waves in leads 3 and f andbiphasic t waves in leads v4 through v6. there was minimal changein these abnormalities with resolution of the patient's pain. ofnote , ekgs taken at townileahli medical center during the patient's initialadmission were notable for t wave depressions in leads v4 throughv6.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the cardiacintensive care unit on iv heparin andnitroglycerine as well as continuation of his aspirin andlovastatin. the patient's pain was treated with morphine sulfate.his cks were followed serially every 8 hours and achieved a peak ckof 2790 on 2/15/95 at 12 a.m. with an mb fraction of 188.8 ng/ml.thereafter the patient's cks rapidly declined. on 3/26/94 , thepatient's ck was 317 with an mb fraction of 3.5 ng/ml.after 24 hours pain-free in the cardiac intensive care unit , thepatient was transferred to the cardiac step-down floor. his ivnitroglycerin and iv heparin were discontinued and the patientremained pain-free. echocardiogram performed on 2/15/95demonstrated inferior and posterior hypokinesis with an ejectionfraction of approximately 46%.on 3/21/95 , the patient underwent exercise tolerance testing with asubmax modified bruce protocol. the patient exercised 9 minutesand was able to complete the study without dyspnea on exertion orchest pain. he achieved a maximum heart rate of 108 and amaximum blood pressure of 160/80. ekg was notable for unifocalpvcs and up to 2 mm st depression in leads v2 through v4 whichpersisted up to 15 minutes into recovery. the patient was givenone sublingual nitroglycerin and these ekg changes resolved.the exercise tolerance test was interpreted as strongly positivefor ischemic coronary artery disease.on 3/28/95 , the patient underwent a submax mibi to assess coronaryperfusion of the heart. similarly , the exercise component of thisexamination demonstrated ekg changes consistent with ischemiccoronary flow. nuclear imaging demonstrated a fixed apical lateraldefect in the patient's heart consistent with a healed or healingtransmural infarct. there was no evidence of ischemic reperfusiondefects.the results of these tests were discussed with the patient and hiswife in conjunction with the treating medical team of dr. settecase .the patient was offered the opportunity for coronarycatheterization to evaluate his anatomy , but he declined at thepresent time. it was decided that the patient would be maximallymedically managed and discharged to home with close followup underdr. cockburn and dr. stenkamp . the patient's cardiac medications wereappropriately adjusted while an inpatient to achieve maximumcardiac benefit.on presentation , the patient also complained of progressiveanterior and lateral thigh pain. this pain was brought on byexertion and had increasingly limited his ability to walk over thelast six months whereas he had been able to walk four to five milesa day in recent months. he had been able to walk onlyapproximately one-quarter mile before developing pain in hisanterior thighs as well whereas he had been able to climb severalflights of stairs a few months ago. he now was able to walk onlyhalf a flight to a flight of stairs at a time before having torest. six months ago , the patient had achieved a 25 pound weightloss but , by his report , because of his inability to exerciseeffectively , he had regained 15 pounds. the patient did notexperience this same anterior thigh pain while riding a bicycle orswimming. as an inpatient , mr. woollen underwent a non-invasivevascular study of the femoral and popliteal arteries. thesedemonstrated no significant arterial occlusions as assessed bypressure manometry. the possibility of myositis or neuromuscularcompromise was entertained and these are to be followed up as anoutpatient.the patient also complained of symptoms consistent with an upperrespiratory viral infection which he had been experiencing over thepast two weeks. while an inpatient , he had a number of febrileepisodes , achieving a maximum temperature of 101.4. the patientwas treated symptomatically with tylenol and started on biaxin 500mg po bid. he received a five day course of oral biaxin withresolution of his fever and decrease in his symptomatology.the patient never complained of shortness of breath , palpitations ,diaphoresis , nausea , vomiting or recurrent chest pain as aninpatient. however physical examination demonstrated rales 4 to 5cm above the bases bilaterally. the extremities remained free ofedema and the patient's jugular venous pressure never exceeded 6cm. a chest x-ray on 0/26/95 demonstrated evidence of earlycongestive heart failure. the patient was treated with daily dosesof iv lasix with resolution of his rales. by the time ofdischarge , there was no evidence of continued heart failure and thepatient's lasix was discontinued.discharge medications:1. enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg po q day2. cholestyramine one packet po q hs3. lovastatin 20 mg po q hs4. lopressor 50 mg po tid5. sublingual nitroglycerin 1/150 tablets to be taken prnwith chest paindisposition: the patient is being discharged to home withfollowup in merh under drs. dwayne ariel bremme .the patient was instructed to call cmh urgent care if his chestpain recurs and does not resolve with sublingual nitroglycerin.dictated by: rolando yafai , m.d. be79attending: homer prestwich , m.d. vn7  xp500/6846batch: 173 index no. jeajt21f84 d: 3/16/95t: 3/16/95[report_end]