889447689 | fcmc | 83230517 | | 775954 | 1/29/2002 12:00:00 am | vulvar abscess | signed | dis | admission date: 5/24/2002 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/3/2002admission diagnoses: vulvar abscess , diabetes.principal discharge diagnoses: vulvar abscess , diabetes , coronaryartery disease , left ventricularsystolic function.history of present illness: the patient is a 47-year-old obesewoman with a long history of poorlycontrolled iddm , and recurrent abscesses. she presents with oneweek of left groin pain and enlarging palpable mass. she firstnoticed a tender bump six days prior to admission and was seen ingyn clinic three days prior to admission at which time she wasafebrile with a white count of 10.6 and was prescribed a ten-daycourse of levaquin. her symptoms persisted and she had the onsetof chills so she returned to the gyn clinic the day of admission ,was afebrile with a 5 x 3 cm vulvar mass and the finger stick of390. she was admitted to the sharpon s tlgen university medical center for ivantibiotics and diabetic control with the plan for i&d by gyn.past medical/surgical history: insulin-dependent diabetes mellitusdiagnosed in 1987 , bilateralperipheral neuropathy , depression with recently discontinued paxil ,history of asthma , no current medications , no recent flares orintubations , hemorrhoids , status post i&d for left thigh andbuttock abscesses , status post tah-lso , status post surgery forectopic pregnancy , status post rso for ovarian abscess , status postexcision of lingular mass ( hemorrhagic infarct , no malignantcells ) , status post systemic biopsy for mild chronic gastritis.medications on admission: insulin 70/30 70 units b.i.d.; nexium 40q.d.; diflucan 100 q.d.; desowenlotion; lac-hydrin lotion; endocet 5/325 b.i.d.; levaquin 500 q.d.x 10 days.allergies: codeine which causes constipation; demerol which causeshallucinations; penicillin which causes hives.family history: breast cancer in her mother and sister , ovariancancer in her paternal grandmother. coronaryartery disease and borderline diabetes in her mother.social history: she is a positive one pack a day smoker x 36years , denies alcohol or drug use. she has alarge extended family in the area. a history of noncompliance withdiabetes management.review of systems: twenty-five pound intentional weight loss overthe past two months , decreased energy ,shortness of breath on climbing one flight of stairs. pain in legswith exercise. recent polyuria , polydipsia , and noted blood on theunderwear in the distant past , believed it to be hemorrhoids.physical examination: on admission. vital signs: afebrile ,temperature 98.2 , heart rate 97 , bloodpressure 140/88 , respirations 18 , oxygen saturation 99% on roomair. general: obese , middle-aged woman in no acute distress.heent: perrl. eomi. oropharynx clear. moist mucous membranes.positive upper dentures. neck: no lad , thyroid not palpable.chest: clear to auscultation bilaterally. heart: s1s2 , nomurmurs , rubs or gallops. jvp at 8.0 cm. abdomen: soft ,nontender , nondistended , positive bowel sounds , nohepatosplenomegaly , no masses. extremities: tender , 3.0 cm , firmmobile , nonfixed , nonerythematous question flocculent mass in herleft groin without associated lymphadenopathy. she did not havepalpable lower extremity pulses , though her extremities were warmwith less than 2 second capillary refill. neuro: alert andoriented x 3. cranial nerves intact. 5/5 strength bilaterallyupper and lower extremities. sensation grossly intact upper andlower extremities , thought some subjective altered sensation in thelower extremities bilaterally.impression: a 48-year-old female with a long history of poorlycontrolled insulin-dependent diabetes , initially admittedfor an i&d left vulvar abscess , control of her diabetes in thesetting of infection , though she developed acute pulmonary edemaafter being on the insulin drip and ultimately had a cardiac workupwhich revealed severe left systolic dysfunction with an ef of 30%and a 2-3 coronary vessel disease.hospital course: 1 ) infectious disease: she had a vulvarabscess , received gentamicin ( dosing per levels )and clindamycin for the duration of her hospital course. hercultures revealed 1+ vaginal flora , anaerobic culture revealedbacteroides , pepto strep and propionibacterium. she is status postan i&d of the vulvar abscess on hospital day #2 which throughoutthe hospital course showed no signs or symptoms of furtherinfection and the plan is for her to follow up with dr. prive as anoutpatient and for her to go home on clindamycin to complete afourteen-day course.2 ) diabetes mellitus: on admission her finger sticks were 600.she at that time received a 15 unit bolus with subsequent insulindrip until the or. she transitioned to subcu insulin on hospitalday #3 and when her diet returned she returned to nph similar tohome dosing of 50 b.i.d. and regular 14 moved up to 17 units b.i.d.with a sliding scale to cover. her sugars were in the high100s-low 200s on this regimen. her discharge sugars were about thesame and she was discharged on her original outpatient dose of70/30 70 units b.i.d.3 ) cardiopulmonary: on hospital day #1 the patient started withcomplaints of cough and shortness of breath with sort of aplus/minus response to nebs , given her history of asthma andsmoking. she had a chest x-ray that showed pulmonary edema withsmall effusions which was felt to be due to the fluid from theinsulin drip. she had an ekg with a left bundle branch block whichwas new from an ekg in 2000. she then was placed on a rule outprotocol with flat enzymes. an echocardiogram that revealed a 30%ejection fraction , global hypokinesis , moderate to severe decreasein systolic function , moderate mr , trace tr. she underwent anadenosine mibi stress test to show a small reversible perfusiondefect ( diagonal coronary artery distribution ) , severe globalhypokinesis. she was placed on aspirin and simvastatin ( ldl 160s ) ,lopressor , and captopril. she was diuresed with lasix iv. sheunderwent a cardiac catheterization on october which revealed ladlong 80% stenosis , 50% rca stenosis , and a pulmonary wedge pressureof 27. a coronary artery bypass graft was recommended bycardiology and after a family meeting they decided on dischargewith follow up for cabg decision and planning.4 ) gi: low salt fluid restricted diet in-house and started onnexium for a history of gastritis.5 ) renal: bun and creatinine was turning upward after thetitration of her ace inhibitor , this was monitored and stabilized.6 ) pulmonary: pulmonary wedge pressure of 27 , the patient withpulmonary hypertension likely due to left volume overload. she wasgoing home with lasix 40 mg p.o.q.d. and lisinopril 20 b.i.d.the discharge plan was for her to be discharged medically optimizedfor cardiac surgery , if she makes the decision to go in thatdirection. she has follow up appointments with both her primarycare physician dr. harland isaman and gyn dr. shewbridge .discharge medications: clindamycin 300 mg q.i.d.; simvastatin 20mg q.d.; lisinopril 20 mg b.i.d.; atenolol25 mg q.d.; lasix 40 mg q.d.; aspirin 325 mg q.d.; insulin 70/30 70units b.i.d. subcu.discharge followup: dr. brehony , for her to call and make anappointment in two weeks. primary carephysician dr. loren stivason , make an appointment within one week.dictated by: antoine oaks , m.d. dq37attending: bernardo d. kunau , m.d. nw7  go009/821705batch: 15639 index no. udify907im d: 1/4/02t: 1/4/02cc: 1. garret abolt , m.d.2. waylon frances maidonado , m.d.