record #837222114763802 | vsmc | 63366237 | | 366769 | 4/29/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 3/6/1994 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/18/1994primary diagnosis: 1. right lower extremity claudicationprocedure performed: right femoral popliteal bypasshistory of present illness: this patient is a 54-year-old womanwith a history of hypertension ,coronary artery disease , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease andadult onset diabetes , who now presents for right lower extremityrevascularization. the patient was admitted to strakua memorial hospital with severe chest pain on 5/25/92 . at that time , thepatient emergently underwent a coronary artery bypass graft afterdissection of her right coronary artery during angioplasty. shehad a coronary artery bypass graft times three ( lima to the lad ,saphenous vein graft to rca times two ). postoperatively , she hadan intra-aortic balloon pump placed. immediately postoperatively ,the patient lost pulses in her right lower extremity. sheunderwent an emergent fem-fem bypass graft with return of herpulses. the patient's postoperative course was uneventful.since that time , the patient has had persistent lower extremityclaudication symptoms in her right lower extremity. she underwentangioplasty of her right sfa on 0/24 with resolution of theangiographically evident stenosis , however , she has had persistentsymptoms. the patient now presents with right lower extremityclaudication after 10 feet. she denies any chest pain or restpain. she denies any shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion.past medical history: 1. significant for hypertension. 2.coronary artery disease. 3. peptic ulcerdisease. 4. adult onset diabetes. 5. chronic obstructivepulmonary disease. past surgical history: the patient is statuspost coronary artery bypass graft in 1992 , status postfem-fem bypass graft in 1992 , status post angioplasty in 0/24 . medications: pepcid 20 mg b.i.d. , procardia xl 60 mg q d ,lopressor 50 in the morning , 25 at noon and 50 at night , glucotrol7.5 mg q a.m. , an aspirin a day 500 mg q a.m. , hydrochlorothiazide25 mg q d , elavil 50 mg q h.s. , and k-dur 20 mg q d. allergies:the patient has a reaction to amoxicillin. social history:cigarettes one pack a day times 35 years and the patient is stillsmoking.laboratory studies: electrolytes were within normal limits. bunof 9 and creatinine of .9. lfts were withinnormal limits. white count of 8 , hematocrit of 50. pt and pttwere within normal limits. chest x-ray showed no acute disease.ekg showed normal sinus rhythm with no acute disease. noninvasivevasculars showed no dp on the right , pt of .56for an abi. dp onthe left was .8 and pt was .9.physical examination: the patient was a pleasant woman in noapparent distress. head/neck examinationwere unremarkable. lungs were clear to auscultation. cardiacexamination was unremarkable. abdomen was obese , soft , non-tenderand non-distended and bowel sounds were positive. there was apalpable fem-fem graft with a positive thrill. extremities showedleft groin site without hematoma , 2+ femoral pulses with 2+ leftsided dp and pt pulses , 1+ dp palpable. the pt was dopplerable onmonophasic.hospital course: the patient was admitted after angio which shetolerated without difficulty. there was nohematoma on her left groin. the patient was seen by cardiology whocleared for the revascularization recommending monitored bed andserial ekgs and cpks postoperatively. the patient was taken to theoperating room on 11/20/94 for right lower extremityrevascularization. at that time , the patient underwent a rightfem-pop bypass graft without complication. there were nocomplications. for details of the operation , please see thedictated operative note.the patient's postoperative course was unremarkable. she wasafebrile and vital signs were within normal limits. the patienthad a dopplerable pulse on postoperative day #1 and for theremainder of her hospital course. the patient's wound from hergroin had persistent serous drainage for which the patient hadt.i.d. dressing changes while in the hospital. she will bedischarged to home with vna for b.i.d. dressing changes because ofthe serous drainage has been persistent. in the upper aspect ofthe patient's wound , there was some erythema for which she wasmaintained on i.v. antibiotics during her hospital stay and will bedischarged on po antibiotics. there was no active purulentdrainage from any of the wound sites. the patient was ambulatingwithout difficulty. she was tolerating a regular diet andurinating and having normal bowel movements. the staples were leftintact at the time of discharge because of the patient's diabetes.disposition: the patient will be discharged to home on 4/29/94with vna for b.i.d. dressing changes. medications ondischarge: keflex 500 mg q.i.d. times five days days , percocet 1to 2 tablets q 3 to 4 h prn pain. the patient is to resume takingall her previous medications as normally scheduled. follow-upcare: the patient is to follow up with dr. swigart in 1 to 2weeks for evaluation.dictated by: otha perla , m.d. rb30attending: herbert o. propheter , m.d. li24  gs448/2899batch: 2511 index no. odyn1z2y3l d: 4/29/94t: 5/6/94[report_end]