record #837836535988172 | prh | 65314326 | | 677434 | 4/7/1998 12:00:00 am | r/o myocardial infarction | signed | dis | admission date: 8/22/1998 report status: signeddischarge date: 4/2/1998discharge diagnosis: wide complex tachycardia post exercisetolerance test recovery.secondary diagnoses:1 ) hypercoagulability state with negative serum work-up.2 ) rule out renal cell carcinoma on the left ( ct pending ).3 ) history of ppd positivity with chest x-ray negative.4 ) gout.5 ) chronic obstructive pulmonary disease status post unilateralorchiectomy.6 ) history of hepatitis a.history of present illness: the patient is a 70 year old man withcoronary risk factors of hypertension ,borderline hypercholesterolemia , remote tobacco with a history ofhypercoagulability ( negative work-up for protein c , s , activatedprotein c , factor v lydin , antithrombin iii , anticardiolipinantibody , and homocystine level ) , and multiple deep venousthromboses/pulmonary emboli requiring chronic anticoagulation andplacement of an ivc filter in 7/26 he reportedly had a historyof chronic shortness of breath and negative stress test forischemia in 1/5 through 11/7/98. a holter monitor in 3/0showed frequent premature ventricular contractions , 21 couplets ,and no other arrhythmias. an echo in 11/22 showed an ejectionfraction of 55% , left ventricular hypertrophy , mitral valveprolapse with 2-3+ mitral regurgitation , and trace aorticinsufficiency. a repeat holter in 2/29 showed numerous prematureventricular contractions , pm bradycardia , sinus tachycardia , a rateof 113 , six triplets , and 172 couplets. on a stress test in 2/11 ,the patient lasted two minutes and stopped secondary to atypicalchest pain with a peak heart rate of 79% of predicted and a peakblood pressure of 170. there were no signs of definite ischemicand no clinically significant rhythm disturbance. the patientreported a vague history of arrhythmia in the ovenfor which he was supposedly due to have a pacemaker placed. hedenied ever being symptomatic with these arrhythmias. over thelast week , he had reported increasing fatigue and shortness ofbreath. the day of admission on his way to the clinic for an inrcheck , he reported chest tightness that was different from hisprevious pulmonary emboli , apparently 10/10 on presentation thoughhe denied it after the fact associated with shortness of breath andfatigue with "heavy heart beats". he denied associated symptoms ofnausea , vomiting , diaphoresis , light headedness , and palpitations.he denied congestive heart failure and syncopal symptoms over thelast few weeks. in the emergency room , he had flat ck and a 0troponin i and a stress test lasting three minutes and fifteenseconds. patient stopped secondary to fatigue and not chest pain ,however , three to five minutes after recovery , he developed acouple of episodes of nonmonomorphic wide complex tachycardia at arate of about 150 lasting twenty to thirty beats during which timehe was reportedly asymptomatic. the patient was admitted forevaluation of this possible ventricular tachycardia.past medical history: history of multiple pulmonary emboli/deepvenous thromboses with number one in 5/29 ,status post tpa when echo showed right ventricular strain , numbertwo in 0/30 , number three in 1/5 after one year of coumadin , andnumber four in 2/23 status post ivc filter placement when patientbled into left renal cyst with goal inr of 3 to 3.8. patient had anegative hypercoagulability work-up , question of renal cellcarcinoma which must be evaluated in the next two months , historyof ppd positivity of 2 cm and negative chest x-ray , mitral valveprolapse and mr on echo , hypertensive borderlinehypercholesterolemia , gout , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ,status post unilateral orchiectomy , restrictive lung disease ,history of a duplex 5 cm adrenal mass , negative 17hydroxyketosteroids and vma , and history of hepatitis a virus.current medications: lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. , amlodipine 10 mgp.o. q.d. , cardura 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. , axid 150mg p.o. b.i.d. , coumadin 6 mg p.o. q.d. , and indomethacin q.4h.allergies: patient had no known drug allergies( hydrochlorothiazide was thought to cause goutexacerbations and ace inhibitor thought to cause cough , and betablocker with urinary retention ).family history: patient had a family history of cancer and nohistory of premature coronary disease ,palpitations , or sudden death.social history: the patient immigrated from the georgiawith his wife a few years ago , had a remotehistory of tobacco , occasional alcohol , and no drugs. he was aprevious factory worker.review of systems: negative.hospital course: the patient is a 70 year old with a history ofhypertensive borderline hypercholesterolemia , andhypercoagulability with multiple pulmonary emboli in the past whopresented asymptomatically with a wide complex tachycardia thatcould not rule out ventricular tachycardia in the recovery phase ofa full bruce exercise tolerance test. the patient was admitted forholter monitoring times 48 hours. he was ruled out for amyocardial infarction. he was started on a cholesterol loweringagent , his coumadin was held , and heparin was started in the caseof an invasive procedure. on 10/6/98 , the patient had an exercisetolerance test mibi on an increased dose of beta blocker of 50 mgof lopressor q.8h. which showed that the patient exercised threeminutes and fifteen seconds stopping secondary to leg pain from hisdeep venous thrombosis with a peak heart rate of 106 , peak bloodpressure 150/80 , frequent premature ventricular contractions incouplets , no st or t wave changes , and no chest pain. the patientthen had an adenosine mibi with a maximum heart rate of 81 and amaximum blood pressure of 180/70. he did have chest pain after theinfusion with t wave inversions in v5 through v6 and occasionalpremature ventricular contractions that were consistent with butnot diagnostic of ischemia. the mibi images showed mildnonspecific inferior wall changes with some reversibilitysuggestive with but not conclusive of ischemia. the patient wasdischarged the following day on his usual out-patient medicineswith the addition of an ace inhibitor , lisinopril 10 mg p.o. q.d. ,given his mitral regurgitation. he will continue his beta blockerat an increased dose , atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.d. , in addition to hiscardura and amlodipine. he was started on zocor at 10 mg p.o. q.d.disposition: he will need out-patient echos to follow his mitralregurgitation and will need to be observed the higherrisk of developing atrial fibrillation. he will also need a repeatstress test in the next couple of months when his leg paincompletely resolves. from a hypercoagulability standpoint , hiscoumadin was started at his usual out-patient dose of 6 mg p.o.q.p.m. with enoxaparin used as a bridge to anticoagulation untilhis inr is at least 3. his goal inr is between 3 and 3.8. he willhave visiting nurse teach him to use the enoxaparin and will cometo coumadin clinic at shava healthcare every two to three days to have his inrlevel checked. a pelvic ct was scheduled on 8/30/98 at 2 p.m. toreevaluate his kidneys and rule out renal cell carcinoma.discharge medications: aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. , lisinopril 10 mgp.o. q.d. , atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.d. ,amlodipine 10 mg p.o. q.d. , cardura 1 mg p.o. q.h.s. , nitroglycerinsublingual tablets 0.4 mg q.5 minutes p.r.n. chest pain ,indomethacin 25 mg p.o. q.6h. , axid 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , zocor 10 mgp.o. q.h.s. , enoxaparin 60 mg subcutaneously q.12h. until inr 3 ,and coumadin 6 mg p.o. q.p.m.follow-up: the patient will follow-up with dr. darnell wancanext week and was in stable condition upon discharge.dictated by: monroe raabe , m.d. xz3attending: ellis r. mitchelle , m.d. da57dn126/4829batch: 89197 index no. kdqnxc0ucw d: 7/1/98t: 1/3/98cc: 1. dennis l. daggy , m.d. wa19[report_end]