672686789 | f | 87281381 | | 309878 | 7/29/1996 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 6/8/1996 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/30/1996principal diagnosis: left pleural effusion , most likely post-pericardiotomy syndromeother diagnosis: ( 1 ) adrenal insufficiency , empirical diagnosishistory of present illness: ms. orser is a 52-year-old womanstatus post mitral valve repair andcabg in 6/28 , as well as dilated cardiomyopathy , who presented in5/24/95 with worsening shortness of breath and left pleuraleffusion , and for further evaluation and treatment of thesesymptoms.history: patient has a long history of mitral valve prolapse. in6/28 , she presented to good niton community hospital with history ofprogressive dyspnea and congestive heart failure noted at anoutside hospital. ejection fraction at that time on echo was 18% ,with severe mr and tr. she was admitted and an echo done at theco.wer hospital medical center showed moderate left ventricular dilatation with an ef of25-30% , with only mild regional variability. there was also rightventricular dilatation with mild decrease in function. mitralvalve was thickened with severe mi. cat at that time showed 71%left-sided lesion. the patient underwent , in 6/28 , mitral valverepair and one-vessel cabg lemma to the lad. she had an uneventfulpost-op course. her post-op echo on 6/12/95 revealed lvdilatation with clear ef of 23% and good iv function. moderateresidual mitral regurgitation and moderate tr. post-op weight ofthe patient was 177 lb.post-operatively , the patient did well initially , when she had pndand orthopnea that was marked prior to surgery , she is able to walknow , and when she was only able to walk only 40 ft. beforestopping. she now sleeps flat on her bed with improved exercisetolerance. she experiences near total resolution of the pnd andorthopnea initially. however , in the period between 6/28 to7/30 , the above symptoms recurred with progressive shortness ofbreath , dyspnea on exertion , cough and positional chest pains. on3/13/95 , the patient saw her physician and was noted to have alarge left pleural effusion at an outside hospital. a leftthoracentesis was done. patient noted 1 liter of bloody fluid thatwas tapped from her thoracentesis. post-procedural weight was 169lb. she was able to breath more easily.status post the left thoracentesis , the patient initially feltwell. however , within the next few days , she continued to developworsening shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion , as well aspnd and orthopnea. she , therefore , represents on 1/2/96 forrecurrence of her symptoms and recurrence of left pleural effusion.past medical history: ( 1 ) mitral valve prolapse , mitral repairstatus post 1/10 ( 2 ) cabg x1 , eilemma tothe lad in 1/10 ( 3 ) hypertension; ( 4 ) asthma; ( 5 ) hypothyroidism;( 6 ) history of stroke x3 , last stroke in 1987; ( 7 ) history of tias;( 8 ) hypocholesterolemia; ( 9 ) history of seizure disorder statuspost mva; ( 10 ) chronic dvts; ( 11 ) tah/bso; ( 12 ) hepatitis history;( 13 ) cystocele repair.admission medications: digoxin .25 qd; vasotec 10 mg qd; lasix40 mg qd; flexeril clear dose b.i.d.;coumadin 7.5 mg alternating with 10 mg q.h.s.; synthroid 15 mcg qd;benadryl 50 mg p.r.n.; prozac 10 mg b.i.d.; mevacor 20 mg qd.social history: no tobacco use. alcohol use none for 10 years.no drugs. unemployed since surgery. married withtwo children.allergies: iodine and atropine which cause shortness of breath.codeine which causes a rash. atrovent unclear sideeffects.physical examination: general - patient is afebrile. extremities-left upper extremities and right upperextremities blood pressures were equal 140/100 , pulse 65 , breathingat 97% on room air. heent - unremarkable. neck - supple with 2+carotids and no bruits. jvd less than 8.0 cm at 45 degrees. nohjr. heart - showed right ventricular and left ventricularheaves. no thrills. regular rate and rhythm. s1 and s2 werenormal. right-sided systolic murmur increased with inspiration.rubs were appreciated when she laid on her left side. lungs -showed decreased breath sounds. decreased tactile  anddullness to percussion 2/3 up from the base on the left. no rales.abdomen - soft. good bowel sounds. no hsm. extremities - 3+edema bilaterally. otherwise , pulses intact. neuro - alert andoriented x3. no focal or neurological deficits in motor or sensoryexam.laboratory data: na 138 , k 4.0 , cl 97 , bicarb 24 , bun 12 ,creatinine 0.8 , glucose 100. wbc 8.9 , 64% polys ,22% lymphs , 5 monos , 4 eosin. , 1 baso. hematocrit 34.3 , platelets415. ldh 233 , total protein. digoxin level 1.1. pt and ptt 14.9and 25.4 with an i&o of 1.5.u/a was negative.chest x-ray showed a large pleural effusion on the left. nopulmonary edema , and no infiltrations.ekg - sinus tachy at 108 , with frequent pvcs and bigeminy.intervals were normal. axis of 21 degrees. left atrialenlargement. no acute ischemic changes.hospital course: ms. franz was initially admitted with adiagnosis of left pleural effusion of unclearetiology. a left thoracentesis was performed and the fluid wasdeemed exudative. it was bloody in appearance and had a whitecount greater than 4 , 000 , with a red cell count greater than500 , 000. patient met criteria for exudative fluid byfluid-serum-ldh ratios , fluid-serum-protein ratio and ldh greaterthan 200. subsequent cultures , however , were negative for abacterial fungal afb. rheumatology etiologies were also r/o withnegative ana and negative rheumatoid factor. cytology was sent onthe patient , which also returned negative for malignant cells. atotal of 1.5 liters was drained from the thoracentesis. subsequentto the thoracentesis , the patient felt significantly better , withbetter exercise tolerance and less orthopnea. she remains with raoto sats greater than 95% for the remainder of her hospitalizationand did not require oxygen. a repeat chest x-ray was done prior todischarge , and compared to post-thoracentesis , showed nosignificant accumulation of the left pleural effusion.initially it was felt that the patient's symptoms might have somerelationship to some element of congestive heart failure. she wasstarted on digoxin and captopril and maxed at digoxin .25 q day andcaptopril 50 mg t.i.d. during this hospitalization , however , thepatient noted in passing , that she had , since her 6/28 surgery ,developed significant dizziness and orthostatic symptoms uponsitting up and rising , and had limited exercise tolerance partlybecause of shortness of breath , but also partly because of herdizziness symptoms. she noted occasional vertigo and occasionaldiplopia. a work-up subsequently ensued related to the symptoms.neurology was consulted and carotid dopplers , as well as mra of thehead to r/o vertebral basal insufficiency were performed. bothcarotid dopplers revealed less than 25 stenosis bilaterally and mraof the head revealed no vertebral basal insufficiency. however , itwas noted on repeated measurements of the patient's bloodpressures , that when she sat up and when she stood up , she becamehypotensive. a modified bruce protocol stress test was performedto determine the patient's exercise tolerance. prior to initiationof the modified bruce , supine blood pressure was 120/80. uponsitting up , the patient's blood pressure was 92 and upon beginningthe modified bruce within less than one minute , the patient's bloodpressure dipped to 60 systolic , and test was terminated. anechocardiogram during this admission revealed an ejection fractionof 30% , moderate lv dilatation , severe global hyperkinesis ,preserved right ventricular function and size , and only trivial mrand tr. no significant arrhythmias were noted on the patient'scardiac monitor throughout her hospitalization , except for oneepisode of transient third degree heart block with a ventricularrhythm. the patient did not demonstrate this rhythm consistently ,however , during her hypertensive episodes.on review of the patient's past medical history , however , it wasfound that the patient had been on chronic steroids for two yearsprior to her 6/28 cabg and prior to the onset of these symptoms oforthostasis and dizziness. patient notes that she was more on thanoff on p.o. steroids for treatment of her shortness of breath at anoutside hospital in perv rome voraso , nevada 15117 at that time , they had deemed that hershortness of breath symptoms were secondary to pulmonary etiologiesrather than cardiac. we , therefore , suspected adrenalinsufficiency and consulted endocrine. acth stem test wasperformed and cortisol , adolsterone and acth levels were drawn at0:30 and 60 minutes post-administration of acth. the patientdeveloped hives and angioedema with the acth which was relievedwith benadryl iv. after the performance of the acth stem testempirically started on hydrocortisone 80 mg iv. the next day thepatient's symptoms resolved and she no longer had any evidence oforthostatic hypertension or dizziness symptoms related to standingor walking. repeated blood pressure measurements for orthostaticwere unyielding. the patient noted her symptoms are completelyresolved and that she felt like a different person. it was ,therefore , felt that the empiric trial of hydrocortisone wassignificant and that the patient most likely had adrenalinsufficiency secondary to chronic steroid for the two years priorto the 6/28 cabg , and this was consistent with the time closer topatient's symptoms , which began after the 6/28 cabg when she wasoff steroids.the patient was therefore discharged in stable condition withdiagnosis of a left pleural effusion secondary to most likely apost-pericardiotomy syndrome , as well as orthostatic hypertensionand dizziness symptoms secondary to adrenal insufficiency. at thetime of discharge , the patient's acth stem test was still pending ,as well as the tsh. it was felt at the time of discharge , thepatient should not be managed on captopril or digoxin. it remainedunclear whether or not the patient's current ejection fraction wasadequate for her symptoms.discharge medications: flexeril 10 mg p.o. b.i.d; benadryl 50 mgp.o. b.i.d; prednisone 20 mg p.o. b.i.d;prozac 20 mg p.o. qd; synthroid 50 mcg p.o. qd; mevacor 20 mg p.o.qd; quinaam 325 mg p.o. q.h.s.disposition: patient was discharged home to li ston hi therewere no complications during this admission. patientwas discharged in a stable condition , with no estimated disability.the patient is to follow-up with dr. otha brue in 12/10 .dictated by: jacob menna , m.d. wm18attending: philip b. butzer , m.d. qd5  va863/6729batch: 87502 index no. lsjqt4492p d: 7/22/96t: 7/22/96