admission date :2013-08-26discharge date :2013-09-17date of birth :1945-02-07sex :mservice:note :the discharge date of 2013-09-17 is pending .history of present illness :briefly , this 68 year old male with a history of coronary artery disease , diabetes mellitus , peripheral vascular disease , was admitted originally to the podiatry service for a left patellar mid-foot ulcer .he underwent angiogram on 2013-08-28 , to evaluate his circulation and found at that time that the patient had a poor circulation to the left leg .the patient was transferred to the vascular surgery service for bilateral iliac stenting at that time .the patient also at that time was followed by cardiology and for preoperative evaluation had a stress test which was positive and he became diaphoretic but denied any chest pain .atropine was given and heart rate returned to the 70s and his blood pressure returned to the 120s over 80s .the patient denied any orthopnea , shortness of breath , chest pain , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea or cough .he had occasional leg swelling .past medical history:1 . coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction in 2006 and 1997 and status post percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty times two .2. diabetes mellitus type 2 since age 25 ; now currently on insulin , which is complicated by peripheral neuropathy , nephropathy and charcot 's foot .3. chronic renal insufficiency .4. peripheral vascular disease status post left iliac stent and right femoral stent .5. hypertension .6. high cholesterol .7. question of tendonitis .medications on admission :1. insulin 70/30 , 40 units q. a.m. and 40 units q. p.m.2. diovan 160 mg p.o. q. day .3. nortriptyline 25 mg p.o. q. h.s.4. norvasc 10 mg p.o. q. day .5. metoprolol 50 mg p.o. twice a day .6. hydrochlorothiazide , 15 mg p.o. q. day .physical examination :the patient was afebrile ; his vital signs were stable .his neck was supple ; he had no jugular venous distention .his carotids were two plus bilaterally without bruits .his lungs were clear .his heart was regular rate and rhythm with no murmurs , rubs or gallops .his abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended .bowel sounds are present .he had bilateral femoral bruits and he had one plus popliteal pulses .his pedal pulses are absent .laboratory :on admission , his bun was 13 , creatinine 1.7 , hematocrit 43 and the cholesterol was 208 .hospital course :the patient is admitted to this hospital through the podiatry service ; however , the stress test showed multi-vessel disease .podiatry continued to follow for evaluation of his left foot ulcer .at the time of discharge , he was having acetic acid wet-to-dry dressing changes , 0.25% q. day .vascular surgery was following at the same time and decided that bilateral iliac stenting would be the most optimum treatment currently and suggested that the patient should be worked up for cardiac disease prior to re-vascularization .medicine was also consulted at that time for high blood pressure and for the biceps pain .while having angiography , he had a transient increase in his blood pressure and became diaphoretic and thus precipitated the evaluation for cardiac disease .cardiology was consulted at that time to evaluate his heart .the patient was managed on the medical service for his drop in blood pressure and cardiac evaluation .he was also followed by podiatry and vascular surgery .he was taken to the cardiac catheterization laboratory which showed multi-vessel disease and cardiothoracic surgery was consulted .the patient was taken to the operating room on 2013-09-04 , where a coronary artery bypass graft times four was performed , left internal mammary artery to left anterior descending , saphenous vein graft to diagonal , saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal and saphenous vein graft to pc by dr. wright .the patient was transferred to the csru postoperatively where he did well .he was slowly weaned from his ventilator and was able to be extubated .the patient was able to be weaned to six liters nasal cannula after extubation , however , it was noted on chest x-ray that he had a small apical pneumothorax .a repeat chest x-ray showed resolution of that pneumothorax .the patient was continued on an insulin drip for his diabetes mellitus but continued to improve .his chest tube was in place for a high chest tube output .his foley catheter was removed and the patient was transferred to the floor .physical therapy was consulted in order to assess the patient 's ambulation and mobility , however , with his foot infection and associated pain , it was difficult to assess at that time .after arriving on the floor , the patient had an episode of rapid atrial fibrillation which was treated with amiodarone and lopressor .the patient resolved , however , lasix was also given due to some pulmonary edema and increasing oxygen need .the patient continued to have episodes of rapid atrial fibrillation while on the floor , which required continued diuresis as well as intravenous lopressor .his chest tube and foley catheter were removed on postoperative day number three , and the patient had aggressive chest physical therapy and nebulizer treatments .his dressing changes for his foot continued per the podiatry service and his leg ulcer was noted to be slowly healing .the patient had multiple episodes of rapid atrial fibrillation which again required intravenous lopressor .amiodarone boluses were given and the patient was started on 400 three times a day of p.o. amiodarone , aggressive pulmonary toilet and continued diuresis was done , however , the patient continued to have respiratory difficulties when in rapid atrial fibrillation .the patient was evaluated on postoperative day number five and it was decided at that time that the patient should be transferred back to the intensive care unit for respiratory difficulties .he was transferred back to the surgical intensive care unit where he was aggressively diuresed as well as his rate was controlled and chest physical therapy and nebulizer treatments were done .the patient improved slowly .also , his white blood cell count was found to rise to 32.0 ; this was most likely due to a secondary infection of his foot and zosyn was started .the patient continued to do well and his recurrent atrial fibrillation slowly improved ; p.o. doses of lopressor slowly increased to get better control of his rate and the patient was able to be controlled with a heart rate in the 50s to 60s with lopressor .following initiation of his zosyn , the white count continued to improve and the patient was planned for a picc line for long-term intravenous antibiotics .the patient was started on lopressor 75 mg p.o. twice a day with good control with a heart rate of 50s to 60s .he is in sinus rhythm .he was also started on his preoperative medications of amlodipine and losartan with improvement of his blood pressure .the patient was also reduced to 400 mg q. day of amiodarone .pulmonary was consulted at this time for this difficulty of diuresis and pulmonary edema .they continued to agree with the management of the patient and with aggressive pulmonary toilet as well as diuresis and nebulizer treatment .the patient was transferred back from the intensive care unit on 2013-09-13 , and upon arriving on the floor , he continued to do well .pulmonary toilet and aggressive chest physical therapy was continued and the patient was able to be weaned from his oxygen .furthermore , his foley catheter was removed and he was started on anti-coagulation for his episodes of atrial fibrillation .he had been started on heparin in the intensive care unit and that was continued .coumadin was then begun with a goal inr of 2.0 to 3.0 .at that time he was stabilized from a cardiac perspective .podiatry and vascular surgery were reconsulted to assess the patient 's needs for revascularization and for his foot ulcer .it was decided at that time that the patient could be discharged in follow-up with vascular surgery for revascularization and podiatry thereafter .on 2013-08-28 , the patient had a picc line placed for a six week course of intravenous zosyn for his foot ulcer and his coumadin was also continued .the patient did well and was discharged to a rehabilitation facility at that time .his discharge date is pending .current discharge medications :1. regular insulin sliding scale .2. coumadin 7.5 mg p.o. q.d. for an inr goal of 2.0 to 3.0 and adjust the dose accordingly .3. acetic acid 0.25% wet-to-dry dressing changes q. day for his left foot ulcer .4. amiodarone 400 mg q. day .5. albuterol nebulizers q. four hours and q. two hours p.r.n.6. losartan 50 mg p.o. q. day .7. iron 325 mg p.o. q. day .8. albuterol ipratropium two puffs four times a day .9. zosyn 4.5 grams intravenously q. six hours times six weeks ; started on 09-10 .10. lipitor 10 mg p.o. q. day .11. amlodipine 10 mg p.o. q. day .12. nortriptyline 25 mg p.o. q. h.s.13. mecsazopam 15 to 30 mg p.o. q. h.s. p.r.n.14. dulcolax 10 mg p.o. or p.r. q. day p.r.n.15. milk of magnesia 30 cc , p.o. q. h.s. p.r.n.16. percocet one to two tablets p.o. q. four hours p.r.n.17. zantac 150 p.o. twice a day .18. colace 100 mg p.o. twice a day .19. alexandria daly 20 meq p.o. twice a day .20. lasix 20 mg intravenous twice a day .21. lopressor 75 mg p.o. twice a day .discharge status :the patient is discharged to rehabilitation .condition at discharge :stable condition .discharge instructions:1. he is instructed to follow-up with dr. holloway in four weeks .2. he is to follow-up with his primary care physician in one to two weeks .3. follow-up with cardiologist in four weeks .4. he is also instructed to follow-up with vascular surgery and podiatry for revascularization at the appropriate time frame .discharge diagnoses :1. coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction status post percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty , status post coronary artery bypass graft .2. diabetes mellitus type 2 , now currently on insulin .3. chronic renal insufficiency .4. peripheral vascular disease status post bilateral iliac stenting .5. hypertension .6. high cholesterol .7. question tendonitis with left biceps pain .8. left foot ulcer status post debridement .please see addendum for any change in medications and discharge date .donna b. christensen , m.d. 31-932dictated by : ervin y. nobles , m.d.medquist36d : 2013-09-16 16:00t : 2013-09-16 16:11job # : 82277signed electronically by : dr. kenneth din on : tue 2013-09-17 11:14 am( end of report )