record date: 2073-04-02internal medicine associatesfolsom convalescent hospitalreason for visit   annual examination.history of present illness   the patient has done very well over the last year.  he has maintained his weight, which has been quite difficult given the social commitments that he has.  he is requiring to eat out quite a bit.  he has also done a large amount of traveling over the last three to four months.  this caused him to be more exhausted than usual.  his incarcerated hernia repair has stood up.  he has some discomfort occasionally in that area, but for the most part feels that this is back to normal.  he is careful with his diet as much as he can be.  he had a cold over the last month or so.  it slowly resolved.  he is asymptomatic presently.major problemshypertensionhyperlipidemiaglucose intolerancechange in therapies and renewalsnexium 20 mg po qd refills:2 total of 90toprol xl 50 mg po qd refills:2 total of 90effexor 75 mg po qd refills:2 total of 90ecotrin 325 mg po qd refills:3zocor 10 mg po qd refills:3 90vitamin e   vitamin c   calcium supplement   flaxseed oil   metformin hydrochloride 500 mg po qd qty:90 refills:3 start: 4/2/2073 take with mealsprocedurescoronary artery bypass  status post.hernia repair  incarcerated hernia repair.. status post.social history   still active in business.  he is treasurer for the masons.  does not smoke.  drinks a few glasses of wine or martini at night.  he has 10 grandchildren.review of systems   recent night sweats, chronic tinnitus, leg cramps on walking, no gi or urinary problems, and notes some easy bruising.physical examinationpulse   72 and regularblood pressure 120/70  general appearance   well appearingheent   oropharynx clearneck   carotids, no bruits.  thyroid, nonpalpablechest   clearcor   rrrabdomen   benignrectal exam   guaiac negative.  prostate, slightly enlargedgenitalia   genitalia, within normalextrem   within normal limits.  pulses intact.  he has fungal infections of his nails on his feetmusc skel   there is some bruising of his left deltoidassessment and plan   the patient is generally doing well.  his cardiac risk management is doing fine.  his blood pressure is in good control.  his recent cholesterol profile is excellent.  he has slightly elevated fasting blood sugars.  we discussed options including diet and exercise which i think he has been very good on.  discussed starting metformin based on recent data that this may help prevent his development of diabetes.  we will begin metformin 500 mg po qd.  we will check his renal and liver function in one week and his bruising is likely due to his aspirin.  we need to follow up on a renal ultrasound for cysts that were discovered during his hernia operation, and i will make these arrangements.  the patient is to return to clinic in three months     coronary artery diseasselected recent labs   we reviewed his laboratories.  these were done earlier in the week.note transcribed by outside service   transcription errors may be present.signed electronically by   stephen  mccullough   on  apr 09, 2073