record #853665889331222 | coh | 70201597 | | 816283 | 10/1/2001 12:00:00 am | failed bypass graft | signed | dis | admission date: 6/29/2001 report status: signeddischarge date: 7/4/2001procedure: left lower extremity revascularization.history of present illness: this is a 63 year old male with ahistory of peripheral vascular diseasestatus post a left femoral to peroneal bypass graft on 5/21/01 forleft lower extremity rest pain. he presents with eleven days ofleft lower extremity swelling. over the prior eight days thepatient noticed pain and pinkish discoloration of the left foot.the patient also noticed occasional left foot coldness which wasrelieved with dependent positioning.past medical history: peripheral vascular disease. hypertension.diabetes mellitus. aortic stenosis.past surgical history: left femoral to peroneal bypass in august of2001. right femoral to peroneal bypass injuly of 1999. right fifth toe amputation in july of 1999. multiplewrist surgeries , including a failed left wrist fusion.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications: he is on outpatient medications of lopressor 25 mgp.o. b.i.d. , hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg p.o. q.d. ,glipizide 10 mg q.a.m. and 5 mg q.p.m. , simvastatin 10 mg p.o. qhs ,amlodipine 5 mg p.o. q.d. , aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , colace 100 mgp.o. b.i.d. , and p.r.n. percocet.hospital course: the patient was admitted on 1/16/01 for presumedfailed left femoral to peroneal bypass graft.the patient was preopped for revision of his bypass graft and , on4/19/01 , the patient was taken to the operating room for a femoralto posterior tibial bypass graft. the patient tolerated theprocedure well but immediately postoperatively the patient wasnoted to have non-dopplerable signals in his left foot. thepatient was brought back to the operating room at which time thesignificant sized clot was found in the distal anastomosis of thegraft which was removed. again , the patient was returned to therecovery room and , in the ensuing hours , the patient again lost alldopplerable signals in his left foot. on postoperative day #1 thepatient returned one more time to the operating room for revisionof his left bypass graft. the patient tolerated the procedure welland had strong dopplerable dorsalis pedis pulse and posteriortibial pulse throughout the remainder of his hospital stay. thepatient was kept on perioperative ancef antibiotics.on postoperative day #0 the patient was found to be in respiratorydistress. chest x-ray revealed flash pulmonary edema. cardiologyconsult was obtained at that time and an echocardiogram revealed anejection fraction of 35 percent with moderate aortic stenosis andregurgitation. the patient ruled in by enzymes for a myocardialinfarction. the patient was kept on beta blocker for goal heartrate less than 75 and was started on digoxin. cardiology alsorecommended the addition of an ace inhibitor for further bloodpressure control. the patient remained stable. he remained in thesurgical intensive care unit for the first three dayspostoperatively at which time the patient was medically stable andtransferred to a surgical floor and monitored bed. repeatechocardiogram on postoperative day #4 and #3 was unchanged fromhis prior echocardiogram , again , revealing an ejection fraction of35 percent with global hypokinesis , severe aortic stenosis , andmoderate aortic regurgitation. cardiology continued to follow thepatient throughout his hospital stay. they recommended the patientreturn for cardiac catheterization following a short stay in acuterehabilitation. otherwise the patient progressed well. he diddevelop a small amount of erythema in his left lower extremityincision site. he was restarted on antibiotics and the erythemaslowly regressed over the ensuing three days. otherwise thepatient's incisions to his right arm , left leg , and right leg allwere clean , dry , and intact with staples.physical therapy consult was obtained and the patient was able toambulate with the assistance of a walker. the patient continued toprogress well. he tolerated a regular diet and ambulated andvoided without difficulty. on postoperative days #9 and #8 , thepatient was accepted to acute rehabilitation at which time he wastransferred. the patient is in stable condition.disposition: level of activity: he should continue working withphysical therapy to increase his mobility. diet: hehas no restrictons of diet. please keep his left lower extremityelevated when he is resting in bed or in chair. please callabed general hospital if he experiences fevers , chills , orredness or discharge from the surgical site. followup: thepatient is to follow-up with dr. koss in the vascular clinic.please call cing medical center vascular clinic to arrangefor an appointment. discharge medications: he is discharged onenteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , captopril 25 mg p.o.t.i.d. , digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q.d. , glipizide 10 mg p.o. q.a.m. and5 mg p.o. q.p.m. , hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg p.o. q.d. , motrin 600mg p.o. q6h p.r.n. pain , lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. , percocet 1 to2 tablets p.o. q3 - 4h p.r.n. pain , zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,simvastatin 10 mg p.o. qhs , oxycontin 40 mg p.o. q12h , keflex 500mg p.o. q.i.d. for three additional days.dictated by: abdul lilla , m.d. hc07attending: romeo h. braverman , m.d. qm26kp941/2908batch: 3305 index no. scorbl3ug6 d: 0/0/01t: 0/0/01[report_end]