385215362ctmc47531332850488611/17/2003 12:00:00 amdischarge summarysigneddisadmission date :11/17/2003report status :signeddischarge date :principal diagnosis :progressive acanthamoeba infection .history of present illness :the patient is a 65-year-old man with refractory cll , status post non-myeloblative stem cell transplant approximately nine months prior to admission , and status post prolonged recent retelk county medical center stay for acanthamoeba infection of skin and sinuses , complicated by ars due to medication toxicity , as well as gvhd and recent cmv infection , readmitted for new fever , increasing creatinine , hepatomegaly and fluid surge spacing , in the setting of hyponatremia .patient initially presented in 1991 with cervical lymphadenopathy , was treated with mace / cytabom , and did well until 1997 , when he received six cycles of fludarabine for progressive disease .in november , 2001 , he progressed to leukemic phase , received rituxan and cvp .started campath in july , 2001 , complicated by lymphopenia / neutropenia and cmv infection , and underwent mud stem cell transplant in december , 2002 .the patient had bone marrow biopsy , august , 2003 , for persistent pancytopenia , revealing mild hypercelluarity with 80% leukemic cells .he was again treated with campath , had recurrent fever in association with sinus symptoms , with ct scan showing left maxillary sinusitis in association with new skin nodules on right elbow and buttocks .patient was hospitalized september 26 to november 11 for what was diagnosed by skin biopsy and sinus washings as acanthamoeba infection of skin and sinuses , without any progression to neurologic infection ( as assessed by head ct and mri ) .id consult was obtained and he was initially treated with azithromycin , itraconazole , and pentamidine , with progression of skin infection .subsequent discontinuance of azithromycin , trial of 5-fc , with increasing neutropenia requiring discontinuance , change if itraconazole to voriconazole , given continued neutropenia , and trial of sulfadiazine , discontinued for increasing ars .patient was maintained on p.o. voriconazole and iv pentamidine , with pentamidine nasal washings , with re-ct of sinuses near end of stay showing no change in disease burden .he has had recurrent cmb infection in the setting of campath therapy , requiring iv foscarnet therapy during stay , with inability to tolerate valganciclovir maintenance suppression subsequently due to increasing ars .hypercapture near end of stay was negative .patient experienced acute renal failure on chronic renal insufficiency , with previous baseline creatinine 1.6 , felt to be due to medication toxicity , requiring kayexalate and phoslo to manage electrolytes , but never any need for hemodialysis , with mild improvement of creatinine by discharge , with peak creatinine 3.4 , discharge creatinine 2.6 .patient struggled with gvhd , with extensive skin involvement , taking cellcept , prednisone and cyclosporine at time of last admission .cellcept was discontinued in the setting of infection , but attempts to decrease prednisone or cyclosporine were unsuccessful .patient returns from rehabilitation after discharge on november 11 , with new fever up to 102.0 in dsci clinic , increasing hepatomegaly as assessed by examination in clinic , and increasing creatinine .patient reports no significant changes in how he feels over the past week .denies cough , shortness of breath , chest pain , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , dysuria , neck stiffness , new skin lesions , worsening red petechiae , or increasing sinus symptoms .patient reports persistent mild right upper quadrant discomfort , recent poor appetite .past medical history :refractory cll with bone marrow involvement , status post mud , mini-allo stem cell transplant , december , 2002 , acanthamoeba infection of skin and sinuses , recently treated with iv pentamidine and p.o. voriconazole , history of recurrent cmb infection , recent ars on cri , thought due to medication toxicity ( creatinine on discharge from retelk county medical center on october 16 was 2.6) .no history of hemodialysis .graft versus host disease , recently on cyclosporine 50 b.i.d. and prednisone 60 q.d.history of svt .medications on admission :pentamidine 300 mg iv q. 36 hours , pentamidine nasal wash 60 mg per 6 ml of sterile water q.d. , voriconazole 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. , acyclovir 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. , cyclosporine 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. , prednisone 60 mg p.o. q.d. , gcsf 480 mcg iv q.d. , epogen 40,000 units subcu q. week , protonix 40 mg q.d. , simethicone 80 mg p.o. q. 8 , nitroglycerin paste 1 " q. 4 h. p.r.n. , flunisolide nasal inhaler , 2 puffs q. 8 , oxycodone 10-15 mg p.o. q. 6 p.r.n. , sudafed 30 mg q. 6 p.o. p.r.n. , fluconazole 2% cream b.i.d. to erythematous skin lesions , ditropan 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , tylenol 650 mg p.o. q. 4 h. p.r.n. , ambien 5-10 mg p.o. q. h.s. p.r.n. , neurontin 100 mg q. a.m. , 200 mg q. p.m. , aquaphor cream b.i.d. p.r.n. , lotrimin 1% cream b.i.d. to feet , dulcolax 5-10 mg p.o. q.d. p.r.n. , phoslo 667 mg p.o. t.i.d. , peridex 0.12% , 15 ml p.o. b.i.d. mouthwash , benadryl 25-50 mg q. 4-6 h. p.r.n. pruritus , sarna cream q.d. p.r.n. pruritus , nystatin 5 ml p.o. q.i.d. swish and ! spit , folate 1 mg p.o. q.d. , vitamin e 400 units p.o. q.d. , haldol 2 mg iv q. 6 p.r.n. agitation , colace 100 mg b.i.d. , senna 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d.allergies :bactrim ( severe rash ) , ganciclovir ( rash , has been desensitized ) .social history :patient works formerly as a structural engineer , has not been employed over the last two years .patient is married , an immigrant from mondca , south carolina who lived close to scond at time of nuclear disaster .physical examination :vital signs :98.6 , 85 , 130/80 , 20 , 97% on room air , 82.2 kg .general :comfortable , conversational , appears same as week prior , no apparent distress .heent :pupils were equal , round , reactive to light , anicteric .oropharynx clear .cardiovascular :regular , normal s1 and s2 , no murmurs , gallops or rubs .jvp flat .respiratory :lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally .abdomen :normoactive bowel sounds , soft , mild right upper quadrant tenderness , not dissimilar from week prior , pronounced hepatomegaly with liver edge 7 cm below costal margin , midclavicular line , no splenomegaly , no cva tenderness .extremities :slightly cool , 3-4+ edema bilaterally .dermatology :erythematous eruption on 80% of body , not much change from week prior .erythematous nodules on arms at elbows and on right thigh , as previous .neurologic :alert and appropriate .admission laboratory data :sodium 129 , creatinine 3.0 , bun 70 , potassium 5.0 , bicarbonate 23 , chloride 99 , alt 36 , ast 30 , alkaline phosphatase 215 , total bilirubin 1.1 , albumin 2.6 , white blood cell count 2.0 , hematocrit 30.5 , platelets 60 .hospital course :patient was admitted for diagnosis and treatment of new fever .workup on admission included a chest x-ray negative for pneumonia , an mri of the liver to investigate for focal lesion , with no evidence for abscess or focal lesion on report .blood and urine cultures with only positive culture a blood culture on november 20 , with one of two bottles positive for coagulase negative staphylococcus .a repeat cmv hypercapture , negative for presence of cmv .a repeat cat scan of the sinuses with finding of progressive thickening of the left maxillary sinus and both sets of ethmoid air cells since prior study of november 9 , indicating progressive infection of acanthamoeba and any possible superinfection with bacterial sinusitis .in the days following admission , there was clear evidence for progression of erythematous nodules over both arms and right thigh at foci of acanthamoeba infection , suggesting progressive skin involvement with acanthamoeba .infectious disease consult was obtained and recommendation was to switch from voriconazole to itraconazole , on which there was more existing data on treatment of acanthamoeba infection .pentamidine intravenous and nasal washings were continued .clinical progression of skin and sinus infection on maximal antimicrobial therapy continued , with emergence on november 20 of a new right-sided ptosis in association with a left homonymous hemianopsia , and fleeting confusion while febrile , prompting head mri which revealed a large 5 x 2 x 4.3 cm region in the right occipital lobe of hemorrhage and edema , with dural and , likely , leptomeningeal enhancement in association with small foci in the right cerebellum and pons , concerning for early lesions of similar type .idiosyncratic reaction to cyclosporine was considered as cause for cerebritis , and cyclosporine was discontinued .however , much more likely explanation is progressive infection of acanthamoeba with new neurologic involvement .most likely source of fevers was judged to be progressive acanthamoeba infection , even on maximal antimicrobial therapy .a single blood culture positive for coagulase negative staphylococcus was treated with a course of vancomycin in the setting of a picc line and a chest x-ray on november 20 indicating possible developing pneumonia , resulted in a course of levofloxacin , for both possible pneumonia , as well as treatment of any bacterial superinfection of acanthamoeba sinusitis .patient experienced steady decline , with persistent fevers despite all above measures , progressive areas of skin infection , more frequent episodes of confusion , and decreasing oxygen saturation in the setting of bilateral effusion , in the setting of fluid surge spacing .on november 30 , a family meeting with patient 's daughter and spouse , along with primary oncologist , dr. tomedankell bile , attending physician , dr. mellerny close , and house staff , was held to discuss patient 's critical condition and inability to prevent progression of skin , sinus and neurological acanthamoeba infection on maximal antimicrobial therapy .decision was made to withdraw aggressive measures of care , with priority on patient 's comfort .pentamidine , itraconazole , levaquin , acyclovir and gcsf were discontinued , along with other medications nonessential to patient 's comfort .dnr / dni status initially established early during hospital stay remained in effect .the patient was made comfortable with morphine for pain and for air hunger , and sinus suctioning was continued to relieve congestion , in conjunction with continuation of nasal sprays .tylenol was continued to control fevers and prednisone was continued to control inflammation and prevent precipitation of adrenal insufficiency .such measures have been continued through december 3 , and patient remains comfortable through this time .this interim dictation to be followed by an addendum detailing end of hospital course .dictated by :shaa kacholera stonge , m.d. ln00attending :la k. ski , m.d. of1 ws584/564649batch :2235index no. uwhs3tcpj2d :12/03/03t :12/04/03