693519617puomc232848776915138837112/16/1997 12:00:00 amend-stage renal disease .unsigneddisreport status :unsigneddischarge summaryname :less , lieseanaleunit number :589-25-50admission date :12/16/97discharge date :01/16/98principal diagnosis :end-stage renal disease .associated diagnosis :1. right nephrectomy .2. cadaveric renal transplant .3. acute thrombosis .4. transplant nephrectomy .5. pulmonary emboli .6. hypertension .7. coronary artery disease .8. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease .9. hypercoagulable state .10. perforated viscus .11. abdominal abscesses .12. sepsis .13. respiratory failure .history of present illness :the patient was a 53-year-old male with a longstanding history of renal disease with multiple complications and problems related to vascular access and hypercoagulable state .these culminated in an attempted cadaveric kidney transplant undertaken on 12/16/97 , which was complicated by thrombosis and necrosis of the cadaveric renal vein within 24 hours .this required a transplant nephrectomy .hospital course and treatment :the patient &apos;s course was subsequently characterized by recurrent pneumonias , possibly due to aspiration , and by hemodynamic instability .he was transferred to the medical intensive care unit from the transplant service for ventilatory management in the setting of hypotension .on transfer , the patient was not sedated , but was unresponsive and extremely dyssynchronous with the ventilator .the patient was found to have substantial auto peep with an elevated dead space .a pulmonary arteriogram on 01/03/98 demonstrated multiple pulmonary emboli , likely less than one week old , possibly introduced at the time of the renal vein thrombosis of 12/19/97 .an inferior vena cava filter was placed ; lower extremity noninvasive studies were negative .the patient required high pressures to ventilate adequately , possibly related to an abdominal compartment syndrome .the patient had undergone two abdominal procedures following explantation .the physiology at the time of transfer to the medical intensive care unit was consistent with a septic process .ct scan demonstrated retroperitoneal collection containing both free air and extravasated contrast material .for the concern of a perforated viscus , the patient was taken to exploratory laparotomy on 01/06/98 , during which the bowel was run without evidence of perforation .the patient remained unstable .he was taken to fluoroscopy , where oral contrast was demonstrated to be extravasating through a posterior duodenum .for this reason , he was taken again to the operating room on 01/08/98 , at which time a gastrojejunostomy was performed with stapling across the gastroduodenal junction , introduction of five jackson-pratt drains into the retroperitoneal mass , cholecystotomy tube , gastrostomy tube , and jejunostomy tube .the patient had an extensive estimated blood loss requiring multiple blood products and fluid resuscitation therapy .accompanying this during this period were elevations in liver function studies and amylase and lipase consistent with pancreatic inflammation .the patient was aggressively treated with fluid resuscitation and pressors for his septic physiology .there was no evidence of cardiac tamponade or specific underlying coronary dysfunction .he was treated with appropriate antibiotics for his serratia pneumonia , as well as for his abdominal process .the patient was felt to have an underlying hypercoagulable state , thought to be the source for the repeated clots .because of the bleeding problems , however , it was felt that full heparinization would not be prudent , and the patient was treated with pneumo-boots and subcutaneous heparin .attention was paid to a variety of metabolic and electrolyte abnormalities , which were corrected appropriately .nonetheless , mr. less continued to remain critically ill with only very transient mild improvement with drainage of additional retroperitoneal fluid .he remained pressor dependent , as well as dependent upon mechanical ventilatory assistance .his course was complicated by atrial fibrillation requiring cardioversion .he had an ongoing requirement for high volume resuscitation and was persistently acidotic despite cv-vvh in the face of bicarbonate replenishment .the patient also appeared to have stool from his jackson-pratt site and right oblique incision .bloody drainage from his increasingly distended abdomen was noted .extensive discussions were carried out with mrs. less condition was irretrievable .it was felt that the patient had continued massive retroperitoneal contamination and probable multiple enteric fistulae from an ischemic bowel .dr. cantsleddjesc felt that no surgical approach to this problem or further intervention or radiologic procedures would be helpful .all physicians and the family were in agreement that the most appropriate approach was to institute comfort measures .this was done , and the patient appeared to be comfortable at the time of death with his family at his side on 1/16/98 .i l. sterpskolk , m.d.tr :vcpdd :05/25/98td :05/30/98 8:30 acc :le freierm , jr , m.d. kiverl na cantsleddjesc , m.d. i lynin sterpskolk , m.d. eti chaelka mulkevi , m.d.cc :dr. less