record #637481729611220 | oh | 82550659 | | 271935 | 3/6/1997 12:00:00 am | r/o pulmonary embolus | signed | dis | admission date: 3/6/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/19/1997principal diagnosis: congestive heart failure.other significant problems:1. non-hodgkin's lymphoma.2. hodgkin's disease , status post mechlorethamine , vincristine ,procarbazine , and prednisone chemotherapy ten years ago.3. hypertension.4. status post total abdominal hysterectomy.chief complaint: three days of shortness of breath.history of present illness: ms. kayser is an african americanfemale who is 72 years of age with ahistory of hodgkin's disease status post mopp chemotherapy , andmore recently diagnosed with non-hodgkin's lymphoma for which sheis being treated with chop chemotherapy. she was tolerating thechemotherapy without complications until developing symptoms offatigue as well as shortness of breath over a three to four dayperiod prior to admission. in august 1997 , ms. vanzile presented tothe oncology clinic with a biliary obstruction that was shown to bea peripancreatic mass and a left subclavicular lymph node. biopsyof the subclavicular lymph node revealed non-hodgkin's lymphoma ,for which she was treated with chop chemotherapy. given herprevious exposure to adriamycin for treatment of hodgkin's diseaseten years previously , the patient's cardiac function was followedand serial echocardiograms over the past six months. the previousthree cycles of chop chemotherapy were complicated with aperipancreatic abscess which was treated with intravenous then oralantibiotics with good resolution. she , subsequently , three morecycles of chop chemotherapy and was in near complete remission bygallium scan; however , a persistent abdominal mass was stilldetected on computerized tomography scan. her therapy was stoppedafter five cycle of chop due to the maximum adriamycin dose of 460mg/m2. the patient was being restaged and was found to developacute shortness of breath over the weekend , denying any chest pain ,nausea or vomiting , or light-headedness. the patient denies anychanges in her activities except for becoming more tired withexertion and wakening up suddenly the night prior to admissionfeeling short of breath.past medical history: includes non-hodgkin's lymphoma , hodgkin'sdisease , hypertension , and a total abdominalhysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.allergies: the patient has no known drug allergies.physical examination: reveals a well-developed , well-nourishedelderly woman who is able to speak completesentences , but with some difficulty. her vital signs were a heartrate of 140; respiration rate of 32 to 36. oxygen saturation of92% on room air and is afebrile. the neck examination revealed ajugular venous pressure of 8 centimeters. no thyromegaly orlymphadenopathy was appreciated. chest examination revealedbilateral lower lobe rales , no rhonchi or wheezes were appreciated.coronary examination revealed tachycardic rate and rhythm with apositive s3. the abdomen was benign. there is no edema at thelower extremities.laboratory: electrocardiogram revealed a sinus tachycardia at 130 ,normal axes and intervals. no st or t wave changes.her profile-7 is remarkable for a potassium of 3.3 , otherwiseunremarkable. the patient has an elevated ldh. cholesterol levelwas 243 and elevated triglyceride level of 197. complete bloodcount was significant for an elevated white count of 11 , 600;hematocrit of 39.9 with an mcv of 91.2; and platelet count of131 , 000. there was a normal differential of the complete bloodcount. her coags are also within normal parameters. theurinalysis was benign.hospital course: problem number one is the patient's shortness ofbreath. given the acute onset of shortness ofbreath and dyspnea upon exertion , causes contributing to the changein pulmonary status included pulmonary embolism , congestive heartfailure , and pneumonia. of note , the patient's chest x-rayrevealed bilateral pleural effusions. however , the patient wasafebrile. therefore , our suspicion for pneumonia was low. thepatient received an echocardiogram to evaluate cardiac function.the echocardiogram on november , 1997 , revealed a mildly enlargedventricle with moderately decreased systolic function. estimatedejection fraction was 30%. global hypokinesis was identified alongwith a marked significant involvement of the apex as well as theanterior septal and inferior regions of the heart. normal rightventricular systolic function was observed. also noted is thatthere was a small pericardial effusion with an elevated pa pressureof 36. there was also the existence of mild to moderate mitralregurgitation and mild tricuspid regurgitation. all of this hadlittle change from the echocardiogram taken on march , 1997 ,which revealed an ejection fraction of 30% to 35% along withhypokinesis and a small pericardial effusion. this was markedlydifferent from the patient's echocardiogram in march 1997 withrevealed an ejection fraction of 67% with normal left ventricularfunction and no wall motion abnormalities. the patient was startedon a lasix regimen in order to start diuresis with good response tointravenous lasix. the patient also was less dependent on oxygensupplements , however , the patient still reported episodes ofdyspnea upon minor activity. a cardiology consultation wasobtained to evaluate the deterioration in the patient's cardiacfunction. this deterioration was associated with the toxicity ofadriamycin. a repeat echocardiogram was obtained to evaluate thepericardial effusion as well as an abnormality identified on themarch , 1997 , echocardiogram consistent with a possible ruptureof one of the chordae tendineae. there was little differencebetween the echocardiogram from march , 1997 , november , 1997 ,and february , 1997. the patient was maintained on a regimen oflasix as well as ace inhibitors. initially , the addition ofionatrope was considered. however , given the patient's history ofpotassium and magnesium wasting , it was decided to add digoxin tothe patient's medical regimen.the patient was also evaluated for the possibility of developing apulmonary embolus. lower extremity noninvasive examinationsrevealed patent vasculature , but no indication of a lower extremitydeep venous thrombosis. the patient also received a vq scan whichrevealed a low probability of the presence of a pulmonary embolus.after the obtaining of a vq scan which was negative , the heparinthat was initially stated upon admission of the patient , wasstopped.the patient was discharged on a regimen of enalapril as well aslasix in order to manage the congestive heart failure. theetiology of the congestive heart failure was thought to theadriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy.fluids , electrolytes , and nutrition: the patient has a history ofa potassium and magnesium wasting. serial profile-7s were obtainedand potassium and magnesium were regularly supplemented. thepatient was discharged with a daily regimen of potassium.disposition: the patient showed marked clinical improvement withdiuresis as well as actively reduction with an ace inhibitor. thepatient was warned that she needed to watch her salt intake. ofnote , the patient was noted not to be compliant with a low-saltdiet. three days before admission , the patient admitted to havinga chinese food dinner which may have contributed to the patient'selement of congestive heart failure.the patient was discharged with the following medications: colace100 mg b.i.d.; vasotec 10 mg q.d.; lasix 20 mg q.d.; kcl 10 meqq.d.; and magnesium gluconate 500 mg q.d.the patient was discharged in stable condition , with followup withdr. gransberry of lourdesko memorial hospital oncology.dictated by: tod riggio , m.d. ss80attending: dewey n. torrent , m.d. wp60  zv705/1141batch: 29248 index no. ybayco96gi d: 10/28/97t: 10/12/97[report_end]