830382840 | mmh | 92213592 | | 8664792 | 6/20/2006 12:00:00 am | pre-syncope | unsigned | dis | admission date: 1/30/2006 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 1/29/2006attending: keppel , long m.d.admitting diagnosis: mechanical fall.discharge diagnosis: mechanical fall.secondary diagnoses:1. hypertension.2. bradycardia.3. osteoarthritis , status post left total knee replacement.4. spinal stenosis.history of present illness: mrs. navarrate is a 73-year-old womanwith a history of coronary artery disease , hypertension ,dyslipidemia , and arthritis who presents with a fall. thepatient has a history of pulmonary embolism in 2000 , treated withlovenox and coumadin. the patient also has a history of coronaryartery disease , status post non-st elevation myocardialinfarction. she presented with chest pain in 2001 and had atroponin i , which peaked at 25. cardiac catheterization revealeda left-sided occlusion and percutaneous coronary intervention wasunsuccessful. a subsequent adenosine mibi in september 2002revealed normal left ventricular function and no perfusiondefects. the patient has since been admitted for left chestpain , last in february 2005 , which has been attributed to hershoulder arthritis. she ruled out for myocardial infarction atthat time and chest ct scans were also negative. today , thepatient was talking to her son on the phone when she went toretrieve a pen and her left knee gave out and she suffered amechanical fall to the floor. she struck her left foreheadagainst a dresser. she did not have any loss of consciousnessand also denied chest pain , shortness of breath , or palpitations.there were no focal neurological deficits and no activelyinflamed joints. she says that her left lower extremity ,especially her left knee is chronically unstable and weak. inthe emergency department , the patient was afebrile. her heartrate was 70. her systolic blood pressure was initially 190 mmhg ,but subsequently came down to 150 mmhg without any intervention.a head ct was negative for bleed and a chest x-ray was negativefor infiltrate or effusions. she was admitted to medicine forfurther evaluation.past medical history: coronary artery disease , hypertension ,hypercholesterolemia , osteoarthritis , polyarthritis with positiverheumatoid factor , and a positive ana , spinal stenosis , pulmonaryembolism in 2001 , obesity , pseudogout , status post left totalknee replacement , history of right foot cellulitis ,gastroesophageal reflux disease , and history of colonic adenomas.allergies: the patient is allergic to bactrim and shellfish.medications on admission: include aspirin 325 mg , atenolol 25mg , plaquenil 400 mg daily , lisinopril 60 mg daily , nifedipine 90mg daily , meloxicam 7.5 mg daily , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mgdaily , lipitor 40 mg daily , protonix 40 mg daily , and colace 100mg p.r.n.physical examination: the patient's temperature was 96.2degrees , heart rate was 52 beats per minute , blood pressure was142/70 , respiratory rate was 18 breaths per minute , and thepatient's oxygen saturation was 97% on room air. on physicalexam , the patient was lying in bed in no apparent distress andwas alert and oriented. the extraocular movements were intact.there is no scleral icterus with a mild proptosis and someperiorbital induration around her right eye , which was tender topalpation. the jugular venous pressure was 8 cm of water. thelungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. on her cardiacexam , the patient had a regular rate and rhythm , a normal s1 withphysiological split s2 and a 2/6 systolic murmur , best heard atthe base. abdomen was soft and nontender , with active bowelsounds. the patient's extremities were warm and well perfusedwithout edema. on strength testing , the patient had 4/5 strengthin her left knee extensors and left hip flexors; otherwise , allother muscle groups in her lower extremities were 5/5. thepatient reports that her left lower extremity weakness ischronic. there were no effusions on either knee. skin waswithout rashes.initial laboratory data: her sodium was 143 , potassium 3.4 ,chloride 107 , bicarb 28 , bun 16 , creatinine 0.9 , with glucose of160. the patient had a white blood cell count of 5300 ,hematocrit was 35.7 , and platelets were 217 , 000. her inr was 0.9and a ptt was 27.8. the patient's initial ck was 177 , ck-mb was3.7 , and troponin i was less than assay. an ekg showed sinusbradycardia with normal axes and no t-wave changes , no q waves ,and no st changes. chest x-ray showed no acute cardiopulmonaryprocess and a head ct was negative for mass or bleed.hospital course: the patient was admitted due to a mechanicalfall and ruled out for myocardial infarction by serial cks andtroponins drawn 8 hours apart for three sets. her ekgs remainedunchanged throughout her hospitalization and the patient had nochest pain , shortness of breath , or any other cardiac symptoms.her troponin values were all less than assay. the patientambulated with pt the morning after her admission withoutdifficulty , navigating stairs , and also walking around the pondwithout any difficulty whatsoever. the patient also had plainfilms taken of her left knee , which showed that her left kneeprosthesis was well seated without any evidence of instability orfusion or fracture of the joint. the patient was noted duringher hospitalization to be bradycardiac to the mid 40s whilesleeping. it was recommended that the patient follow up with theprimary care physician to assess whether she needs to continue onher atenolol due to bradycardia noted on telemetry. the patientwill also follow up with her orthopedist regarding her proceedinstability of her left knee joint. the patient's orthopedist isdr. fickett of the pa memorial hospital and her primary carephysician is dr. mcbrearty in vill medical center the patient will callfor follow-up appointment with her physicians. the patient wasdischarged with her son to home on the evening of 8/19/06 tocontinue her admission medications. there were no changes madeto her medications listed above.escription document: 8-3142026 cssten teldictated by: brandel , wiley dannieattending: dakin , marcodictation id 4115713d: 8/19/06t: 11/19/06