record #170890381614252 | sho | 80549815 | | 965390 | 0/1/1992 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 7/14/1992 report status: signeddischarge date: 0/23/1992diagnosis: left ureteral stricture.operations/procedures: flexible cystoscopy , left externalureteral stent placement , repair ofleft distal ureteral stricture( boari flap ) by dr. fankhauser , allan jameon 8 of june internalization of leftstent by dr. schock , tom gregory on27 of marchhistory of present illness: the patient is a 61 year old femalewho underwent a left ureterallithotomy in 1985. she subsequently developed a left ureteralstricture at the pelvic brim , which was balloon dilated in 28 of januarythe patient received 2-1/2 years of relief , but the presented withleft flank pain and left hydronephrosis in 23 of april she had reliefwith a left percutaneous nephrostomy , and later another balloondilatation. she had a third balloon dilatation in 15 of november , and thiswas of a 4-centimeter segment. a stent was left in place. thestent presently is within the ureter. the patient now presents forthe above-mentioned procedure. past medical history was as above.past surgical history was as above , plus thyroid cyst excision ,liposuction of bilateral lower extremities , cholecystectomy ,appendectomy , vein stripping , carpal tunnel release bilaterally ,and tubal ligation. medications on admission were levothyroxine0.025 milligrams 2 tablets per day , motrin as needed , tylenol asneeded , percocet as needed. allergies included penicillin whichcaused a rash.physical examination: the patient was an obese female in no acutedistress. head , eyes , ears , nose and throatexamination was clear. neck was supple without lymphadenopathy.back has no costovertebral angle tenderness. lungs were clear.heart had regular rate and rhythm. abdomen was obese , soft ,nondistended , nontender , good bowel sounds , multiple surgical scarsalong the abdomen which were well-healed. rectal examinationshowed increased tone , tender secondary to hemorrhoid. neurologicexamination was grossly nonfocal.laboratory examination: on admission , hematocrit was 29.7 ,prothrombin time 11.8 , partialthromboplastin time 21.2.hospital course: the patient was admitted on 18 of february , for aprocedure on 8 of june she underwent theabove-mentioned procedure without difficulty. the patient did lose1 liter of blood , however , and received 2 units of autologouspacked red blood cells as well as 4 , 000 cc of lactated ringer's and2 , 000 cc of hespan and 500 cc of albumin. in the operating room ,they found the left distal ureteral stricture , approximately 8centimeters with a small stone cluster. the patient left theoperating room in stable condition with a foley to gravity , a7-french single pigtail external ureteral stent , as well as ajackson-pratt drain to suction. postoperatively , the patient didwell. she did have a low hematocrit in the immediate postoperativeperiod requiring 2 units of blood. her level was 21.9. otherwise ,electrolytes were stable and the patient was doing well. thepatient was taken to the ward for the remainder of herpostoperative care. we kept her on intravenous antibiotics andnothing-per-oral until she passed flatus , at which point she wasable to tolerate a diet. because of the duration of surgery , aswell as her large size , pulmonary toilet was encouraged with thepatient. on postoperative day #3 , the patient persisted with afever of unknown origin , again thought to be respiratory asmentioned above. cultures were taken and she remained onantibiotics. stentogram was done on postoperative day #10. thisshowed extravasation of fluid distally in the ureter. cystogramshowed no bladder extravasation. with that in mind , the foley wastaken out and the stent was left in place. it was anticipated thatshe would be taken back another time for stent removal. thepatient was discharged on 5 of july the external stent had actuallybeen switched over to an internal stent at the time of discharge.disposition: the patient was discharged to home. condition ondischarge was stable. the patient was to follow-upwith dr. kent j. inagaki , and will call the genitourinary staffor come to the emergency room for fevers , chills , nausea , vomitingor other questions or concerns. medications on discharge werepercocet and keflex.qz988/8509hubert n. hulburt , m.d. my59 d: 8/9/92batch: 4085 report: g0743w5 t: 11/26/92dictated by: josh onyeanus , m.d.[report_end]