record #904835546608017 | hh | 85716261 | | 546508 | 0/3/1999 12:00:00 am | stroke | signed | dis | admission date: 4/3/1999 report status: signeddischarge date: 0/30/1999chief complaint: this patient presented with an acute stroke andwas brought in by her daughter.history of present illness: sixty-six year old obese africanamerican woman of previous cva ofunclear etiology and unclear clinical sequelae. she was driving asa passenger in a car around 11:00 o'clock in the morning andexperienced a sudden speech arrest which was witnessed by herdaughter-in-law. she has also difficulty moving her right arm andshe had some tearing of her left eye as well as a skewed look onher face. by 11:40 a.m. , the ambulance had arrived and she wasadmitted to the koote hospital emergency departmentwhere the protocol for acute stroke was instituted. the patienthad a cta done which showed questionable luminal narrowing of thedistal left middle cerebral artery. ct scan was normal and thepatient was given intravenous tpa at 1323 p.m. she was given a 9mg bolus dose over two minutes and 81 mg given over the followinghour. she was transferred to the neuro. intensive care unit ofham tertnough memorial hospital . past medical history; diet controlled diabetes , obesity ,hypertension as per the rinn maield pinessi hospital internalmedicine associate records. she also has history of ulcerativecolitis and is on treatment. she is status post mi in 1988 andthere is question of an old stroke in the past. there is alsoquestion of asthma.medications: currently is aspirin 325 mg and asacol although shewasn't sure of the dose.social history: nonsmoker , married with several children. atbaseline , she is wheelchair dependent due tochronic hip and back pain although she ambulates at home.review of systems: revealed chronic mild shortness of breath.family history: there was no significant other family history.physical examination; blood pressure is 138/76 , heart rate was 80and paced. she was an obese lady lying onher back. head and neck: revealed no evidence of trauma. therewere no bruits in the neck. chest: clear. there were bilateralwheezes. abdomen: soft , non-tender. extremities: normal , obesewith no edema. neuro: the patient is awake and alert , lookingaround. she was mute however. she was able to follow one stepcommands. she had a question of a right field compromisedifficulty crossing the midline. she had a right upper motorneuron seventh weakness with decreased power on the right side ofthe face. she had flaccid right arm. her right leg had some powerwith flexion at the knee but was generally weak. she had optimumcoordination and absent pinprick and proprioception on the right.all of this was documented at 12:30 a.m. by 14;30 a.m. , after thepatient was given intravenous tpa , the patient's language hadreturned completely to normal. she had normal speech includingcomprehension and naming. her ability to distinguish left fromright was intact. her repetition was intact. she had full range ofmovement of the eyes with full fields of confrontation. she had amild right arm drift on the right side but her strength was 4+/5distally and proximally. there was normal power in the right lowerlobe and the plantars were normal. there was no increase inreflexes. the patient was transferred to the intensive care unitfor the neurological service of teaspell diee hospital . hospital course: blood pressure monitoring was instituted perprotocol , nasal oxygen was given and no antiplatelettherapy was given for 24 hours. head of bed was raised to 30degrees. head ct was repeated the following morning , the resultsof which show that there is slight left basal ganglion internalcapsule , acute and subacute infarct in the left middle cerebralartery distribution which was evolving from the previous study.there was no evidence of intracranial hemorrhage. the patient hadfurther investigations to look for a cause of this presumed embolicstroke. she had an echocardiogram done which showed the aorticroot at 3.5 cm , the atrium at 3.2 which is slightly dilated. therewas normal ventricular size and overall preserved systolicfunction , trace aortic insufficiency , 1+ tricuspid regurgitation ,trace mitral regurgitation. holter monitor was done which showedpersistent atrial flutter. the patient was coumadinized and somediscussion pertaining to cardioversion was entertained by theelectrophysiology service. however , this was not done as aninpatient. the patient continued to do remarkably well after herintravenous thrombolysis over the next couple of days. she hadpersistent drift on the right arm; however , her speech remainedcompletely normal. she was reviewed by the chronic pain service onseveral occasions for chronic back and leg pain. she reachednormal levels of coumadin within several days and was dischargedwithout rehabilitation. she will be followed by the cardiacservice and a plan for complete cardioversion was instituted withinone month. the patient went home on coumadin. she was finallydischarged on 0/21/99 . dictated by: harold ullmann , m.d. hq91attending: ian m. lajeunesse , m.d. ix83  ro255/5843batch: 74024 index no. b7nm1543eg d: 6/6/99t: 6/6/99[report_end]