record #356095205152955 | lmc | 64949094 | | 996389 | 3/8/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 5/8/1994 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/25/1994discharge diagnosis: coronary artery disease. problem listincludes:1 ) hypertension.2 ) asthma.3 ) degenerative joint disease.history of present illness: this is a 73 year old gentleman with apast medical history of hypertensionwho presented to dr. burch at the collstate on4/10/94 after a couple of episodes of heavy diaphoresis andnausea , an identifiable precipitant. his ekg there revealed new twave inversions in the inferior leads and he was admitted to therexas& hospital where he ruled out for myocardial infarction.while at hanghab medical center , his ekg alternated between left anteriorhemi-block and left posterior hemi-block. in addition , he hadfurther episodes of nausea and diaphoresis. because of hisbaseline conduction system disease , an exercise tolerance testcould not be performed and the patient was sent for an exercisetolerance test thallium. however , prior to the test , the patientbecame diaphoretic and nauseous with a non-palpable blood pressure.he was treated with an intravenous fluid bolus with subsequentimprovement. because he was felt too unstable to undergo a nuclearimaging , he was transferred to the hend losblan care toundergo cardiac catheterization. the patient denied any paroxysmalnocturnal dyspnea , orthopnea , or peripheral edema. he also deniedany recent change in exercise tolerance. past medical history:significant for a history of rectal fissure , a small bowelobstruction , microhematuria of uncertain etiology despite anextensive work-up , diverticulosis , and hemorrhoids. he also has ahistory of degenerative joint disease and a history of mild asthma.his coronary risk factors include hypertension , obesity , gender ,and age. allergies: none. current medications: calan sr 240p.o. q.d. , beconase two puffs b.i.d. , brethaire two puffs q.i.d. ,azmacort four puffs b.i.d. , feldene 20 mg p.o. q.d. , and aspirinone p.o. q.d.physical examination: this was a well-developed pleasant male inno apparent distress with a blood pressureof 154/82 , heart rate 74 , and respirations 14. heent:normocephalic , atraumatic , pupils equally round and reactive tolight and accommodation , extraocular movements intact , andoropharynx was benign. neck: supple with no jugular venousdistention and he had a left carotid bruit , however , his carotidupstrokes were normal. lungs: clear to auscultation bilaterally.cardiac: examination revealed a very quiet precordium with aregular rate and rhythm without any murmurs , gallops , or rubs.extremities: revealed femoral pulses 2+ without bruits , dorsalispedis and posterior tibial pulses 1+ bilaterally , and he had noclubbing , cyanosis , or edema.laboratory examination: significant for a sodium of 140 , apotassium of 4.4 , bun of 28 , creatinine1.7 , glucose of 110 , white count was 6.4 , hematocrit was 47.6 ,platelets were 137 , 000 , his pt was 13.6 , and his ptt was 47.3. hischest x-ray at andsi medical center revealed an enlarged heart withno pulmonary infiltrates , his ekg from 2/10/94 at the massbarre county memorial hospital revealed sinus bradycardia at 56 , left posteriorhemi-block with non-specific intraventricular conduction delay , andpoor r wave progression across his precordium. he had deep t waveinversion in iii and f , this ekg was also notable for a pattern ofalternating conduction delay with alternating pattern of leftanterior and left posterior hemi-block.hospital course: the patient underwent a cardiac catheterizationon 10/25/94 which revealed hemodynamics of aright atrial mean of 6 , a right ventricular pressure of 28/6 , apulmonary capillary mean pressure of 14 , he had a totally occludedmid left anterior descending lesion , a tight second diagonallesion , a totally occluded om1 lesion , and a 70% distal rightcoronary artery lesion. his left ventriculogram revealedanteroapical hypokinesis. on further analysis of the patient'sekg , it was felt that he alternated between left anteriorhemi-block and left posterior hemi-block. it was felt that hissymptoms may be an indication of more advanced conduction systemdisease that would possibly justify a pacer. at this point , thedecision was to monitor the patient with holter monitoring and toperform a stress mibi examination to assess if he degenerated tomore severe conduction disease. holter monitoring on 0/19revealed sinus rhythm between 40 and 85 , he had 14 hours ofoccasional atrial premature beats , two hours of occasionalventricular premature beats , each lasting less than a minute , aswell as intermittent intraventricular conduction delay. he had nosymptoms during the 24 hours of holter monitoring. he exercisetolerance test mibi examination revealed a modified bruce protocolon which he went twelve minutes stopping secondary to leg fatigue ,he had no chest pain , his maximum heart rate was 112 , his maximumblood pressure was 195/95 , he had no change in his baseline ekg aswell as no st changes , and no arrhythmias. his mibi evaluationrevealed a fixed inferior defect extending to the posterior septum.given the above information , particularly the fact that the patientdid not degenerate to more severe conduction system disease withexercise , it was felt that a pacer would not be necessary at thistime. moreover , the patient had no provokeable ischemia by mibievaluation and it was felt that revascularization was unnecessary.the decision then was to send the patient home on an adequatemedical regimen which was achieved during his hospital course viathe addition of captopril to his medical regimen to provide himwith adequate blood pressure control. it is noteworthy that thepatient had no episodes of nausea or diaphoresis during hishospitalization , that is ambulating without assistance with nosymptoms whatsoever. he is therefore felt to be stable fordischarge and is being discharged to home.operations and procedures: cardiac catheterization on 10/25/94with complications none.disposition: discharge medications: captopril 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. ,verapamil sr 180 mg p.o. b.i.d. , ocean spray twopuffs inhaler b.i.d. , ecotrin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , beconase two puffsinhaler q.i.d. , ventolin two puffs inhaler q.i.d. , and azmacortfour puffs inhaler b.i.d. condition on discharge: stable. thepatient is being discharged to home for follow-up with dr. patricia g palenzuela on berke in arl pringcori ton in one week's time.dictated by: josef catino , m.d. xa96attending: edwardo h. amass , m.d. fs8  tn503/9073batch: 5368 index no. fonswd1co7 d: 10/26/94t: 4/30/94[report_end]