096589653 | nmh | 03255061 | | 568888 | 3/10/2000 12:00:00 am | unstable angina , r/o myocardial infarction | signed | dis | admission date: 7/9/2000 report status: signeddischarge date: 4/26/2000admission diagnosis: chest pain of unclear etiology.history of the present illness: ms. veltin is a 72 year old womanwith a past medical historysignificant for coronary artery disease , diabetes , and hypertensionwho presented with worsening chest pain and shortness of breath.she had a long history of coronary artery disease with an exercisestress test in 1997 that was positive for ischemic st-t wavechanges. she had a catheterization at that time which revealeddiffuse three vessel disease , none of which was significant. in1998 , she developed a left bundle branch on her ekg but it was notclear when exactly this happened. she stated that for the pastyear , she got these stabbing pains in the center of her chest thatthen progressed to a squeezing pain with palpitations. sometimes ,there was relation to exertion but no relation to meals or positionand this chest pain had been increasing in frequency over the pasttwo to three weeks so now it occurred approximately two to threetimes a week and was associated with shortness of breath. two daysprior to admission , she developed constant chest pain that went toher left arm and made four of her left fingers numb. she was quiteshort of breath though she denied paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea ,orthopnea , lower extremity edema , increased nocturia , and diet ormedication noncompliance.past medical history: significant also for diabetes for which shetook insulin and checked her sugars at homewhich ran 170 range to 200 range , hypertension , and she hadidiopathic drop attacks. she got these episodes where her legsfell out from under her without warning but she did not loseconsciousness. she had had an mri/mra that showed some diffusesmall vessel disease but the mra was normal.current medications: atenolol 50 b.i.d. , hydrochlorothiazide 25q.d. , lisinopril 40 q.d. , simvastatin 10q.d. , metformin 500 q.d. , and nph 43 q.a.m. and 24 q.p.m.allergies: penicillin caused a rash and intravenous contrast dyecaused hives.social history: she was a retired nurses' aide who retired in1992 , she was a widow , and she had two livingchildren who were grown. she lived alone and took care of hereight year old great-grandson but had a daughter and son-in-law wholived next door.physical examination: on admission , significant for an elderlyobese african-american woman lying in bed insome mild respiratory distress. her oropharynx was moist , herjugular venous pressure was 12 cm , her lungs had scattered cracklesat the bases , her heart was regular with an s4 , her belly was softand nontender , her extremities had trace edema , and her rectalexamination showed guaiac negative brown stool.laboratory examination: her ekg showed a left bundle branch blockand chest x-ray showed mild pulmonaryedema and kerley b lines. her laboratories on admission were allwithin normal limits. her initial ck was 97 with troponin of 0.01.assessment: in summary , this is a 72 year old woman with multiplecardiac risk factors who presented with chest pain ofunclear etiology. she was admitted for evaluation.hospital course: 1. cardiovascular - she was admitted forcatheterization which showed three vesseldisease , again nonsignificant and not changed from thecatheterization in 1997. she ruled out for a myocardialinfarction. she had an echo which showed some element of diastolicdysfunction and pulmonary artery systolic pressure of 36 plus rabut no wall motion abnormalities. it was felt that she had someelement of diastolic dysfunction that caused her to go into a bitof pulmonary edema , maybe subendocardial ischemia. therefore ,while she was maintained on her aspirin and simvastatin , her bloodpressure regimen was advanced. her heart rate was in the fiftiesto sixties and atenolol 50 b.i.d. was added. she was on a maximumof lisinopril at 40 milligrams so nifedipine extended release wasadded and titrated up to 120 milligrams q.d. where she maintainedsystolic blood pressures in the 160 range nevertheless. this couldbe further titrated as an outpatient.2. for her congestive heart failure , she diuresed approximatelyfour liters through admission with lasix at 40 intravenously andwould be discharged on a seven day course of lasix at 20 p.o. q.d.for further diuresis.3. pulmonary - she did have hypoxia on admission to 85% on roomair while lying in bed. this was felt to be out of proportion toher mild congestive heart failure and further causes were sought.her d-dymer was greater than 1000 and she then went for a v/q scanwhich was low probability. her lower extremity noninvasives werenegative. she also had a chest ct which showed no interstitiallung disease. she had pulmonary function tests which wereconsistent with restrictive picture and were not much changed fromher pulmonary function tests in 1998. a pulmonary consultation wasobtained who believed that the congestive heart failure along withobesity underlying restrictive lung disease could be the cause ofher hypoxia and , in fact , after further diuresis , her shortness ofbreath much improved and she had o2 saturations that were 93% onroom air.4. endocrine - she was maintained on metformin during admissionand also on half of her dose of her normal dose of nph given herdecreased p.o. intake , however , given the fact that she stated thather sugars at home on her regimen of 43 q.a.m. and 24 q.p.m. were170 to 200 , she was discharged on this regimen with instructions tocheck her sugar and call her doctor if they were low.disposition: she is discharged in stable condition on january ,2000. she will follow up with dr. nakajima , her primarycare doctor , and in addition , with dr. klang , her cardiologist.discharge medications: atenolol 50 b.i.d. , hydrochlorothiazide 25q.d. , lisinopril 40 q.d. , nifedipineextended release 120 q.d. , metformin 500 q.d. , nph 43 q.a.m. and 24q.p.m. , simvastatin 10 q.d. , aspirin 325 q.d. , and lasix 20milligrams p.o. q.d. times seven days.dictated by: victor lietzow , m.d. jn10attending: cory r. lorsung , m.d. qg8qe043/7701batch: 62923 index no. rfco8u6696 d: 7/19t: 7/19