882149406 | who | 39678628 | | 9952304 | 4/18/2006 12:00:00 am | coronary artery disease | signed | dis | admission date: 4/18/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/28/2007attending: stomberg , marlon mdadmission diagnosis:the patient is admitted for a right gluteal hematoma.history of present illness:the patient is a 62-year-old man with coronary artery diseasestatus post recent bare metal stenting in august ,hypercholesterolemia , cll and peripheral arterial disease andadmitted for increasing right thigh pain and fallinghematocrit at rehabilitation. the patient had a complicatedhospitalization in august where he presented with a severeright mrsa infection of his right lower extremity. duringhospitalization , he required a revascularization prior toundergoing surgery and had a bare metal stent placed to his leftanterior descending artery. after his stenting , he underwent a left bka toeradicate his left lowerextremity infection and was later noted to have aright upper extremity clot associated with central venous catheter. thepatient was discharged from the hospital in august on lovenox80 mg twice daily and on coumadin with the plan that his lovenoxbe stopped at the time of his coumadin reaching a therapeuticlevel. he was also discharged on aspirin and plavix for his baremetal stent. on the day prior to admission , the patient wasnoted to have a hematocrit of 24 at rehab and on the day ofadmission the hct rechecked and was found to be 18. for this , he wastransferred to the landm hospital for furtherworkup. the patient denies any blood in the stool , melena ,dizziness or lightheadedness. he does note some pain on hisright side , particularly his right upper thigh and glutealarea. he denies any recent trauma. he felt some weakness in hisright leg but has had no paresthesias or pain. he states thathis leg has been at all times warm.ed course:the patient was noted to be guaiac negative and complained ofsome mild abdominal fullness. he received an abdominal ct , whichshowed a very large right gluteal hematoma with a fresh fluidlevels suggesting acute bleed. the patient was given packed redblood cells and was noted to have a potassium level of 5.8 forwhich he received kayexalate.past medical history:type ii diabetes , hypertension , coronary artery disease statuspost mi in 1997. he had a nonst elevation mi in 3/29 forwhich he underwent catheterization. catheterization at that timeshowed an 80% left anterior descending lesion , which was stentedto 0 with a bare metal stent , 80% diagonal and first diagonallesion and a 100% circumflex lesion. the patient has knownsignificant peripheral vascular disease status post left tma in4/3 with fem-pop in 4/3 , left foot debridement in 5/26and finally a left bka in 6/26 he has congestive heartfailure with last ejection fraction of 32% , hyperlipidemia , gout ,cll status post fludarabine x4 cycles in 2004 in which has beenstable with no evidence of residual or retroperitoneallymphadenopathy , bph , chronic kidney disease with a baselinecreatinine of 2.5 , and glaucoma.admission medications:include aspirin 325 mg , niferex 150 mg daily , lasix 80 mg b.i.d. ,colace 100 mg b.i.d. , lovenox 80 mg b.i.d. , plavix 75 mg daily ,diltiazem 60 mg t.i.d. , hydralazine 20 mg t.i.d. , lantus 42 unitsat night , novolog 10 units with meals , lopressor 75 mg q.6h. ,zocor 40 mg at night , flomax 0.4 mg daily , coumadin 10 mg daily ,multivitamin , vitamin c , zinc 220 mg daily , neurontin 100 mgb.i.d. , xalatan one drop in the left eye every evening.allergies:his allergies include codeine.physical examination on admission:the patient was in no acute distress. normocephalic , atraumatic.his eyes were anicteric. his extraocular membranes were intact.mucous membranes were moist without exudates. his neck wassupple , with full range of motion. he had 2+ carotid pulses onboth sides without any evidence of bruits. his jugular venouspressure was approximately 8 cm of water at 30 degrees ofelevation. his lungs were notable for bibasilar crackles withleft side greater than right. cardiovascular exam: he hadregular sinus rhythm with normal s1 and s2 , and he had a i/visystolic ejection murmur at his base. this seemed to radiate tohis axilla. his abdomen was soft , nontender , and nondistended.he had normal bowel sounds in all four quadrants , nohepatosplenomegaly or masses. his extremities are notable for aright-sided gluteal hematoma with fullness and thickening. hedoes have 1+ palpable dp pulse on that side confirmed withdoppler. skin was without rash , ecchymosis , or petechiae. hisneurological exam was intact. he was alert and oriented x3.cranial nerves ii through xii were grossly intact. he had intactmotor and sensation in his right lower extremity along with ,however , was noted to have a baseline neuropathy with sensoryloss up to his admission.admission ekg is normal for normal sinus rhythm , normal axis , oldt-wave inversions in i and avl and an isolated st elevation inlead 2.notable studies during this admission included ct of the abdomenon admission which showed a new right gluteal hematoma with fluidlevels suggesting acute bleed.admission labs:potassium 5.8 , creatinine 2.1 , hematocrit of 22.3. he had an mriof his brain done on 5/29/06 which showed subacute infarction onthe right anterior internal capsule and chronic occlusion of theleft internal carotid and old left parietal stroke. he had anechocardiogram done on 10/1/06 with an ejection fraction of30-35% , trace aortic insufficiency , trace mitral regurgitation ,trace tricuspid regurgitation and pa systolic pressures of 33+right atrial pressure.impression:this is a 62-year-old man admitted for a falling hematocrit withan evolving right gluteal hematoma secondary to supratherapeuticanticoagulation.hospital course by problem is as follows:1. right gluteal hematoma. the patient was admitted for lowhematocrit in the setting of being on multiple anticoagulant andantiplatelet drugs. he was found to have right gluteal hematomawhich was responsible for his acute hematocrit drop. hiscoumadin , lovenox , aspirin , and plavix were initially held. hereceived vitamin k and three units of ffp to reverse hiscoagulopathy. he was also transfused a total of 6 units of prbcsfor a goal hematocrit of 30 given his cardiac and neurologicdisease as described below. there was no evidence of furtherhematocrit drop. given that he had been anticoagulated due toright upper extremity dvt and that the indication foranticoagulation in the setting and catheter associated clot issomewhat murky , it was felt that the patient would not benefitfrom addition of anticoagulation and therefore his lovenox andcoumadin were discontinued. he was restarted on his aspirin andand his plavix and his hct remained stable.2. non-st-elevation mi. the patient was admitted in augustand was known to have three-vessel coronary disease and hadunderwent stenting of his lad with a bare metal stent on6/28/06. after discussion with the cardiologist , he was stoppedon aspirin and plavix given the evolution of hematoma and hisacute hematocrit drop. during his lowest hematocrit period , thepatient was noted to have lateral st depressions and thiscorresponded to a troponin leak with a peak troponin of 2.46.the etiology of this was felt to be demand related to hisprofound anemia and on correction of his anemia , the patient's stdepressions resolved fully and his troponins trended downward.the patient was known to have a presumed ischemic cardiomyopathyfollowing his nonst elevation mi. he was found to have anejection fraction of 30-35%. he willneed to have a repeat echocardiogram done in one month's time toassess whether or not he would benefit from an implantablecardiac defibrillator. the patient's blood pressure medicationswere adjusted as follows. his blood pressure medications wereinitially held due to his stroke-like symptoms at the time ofadmission when his low hematocrit. as detailed below , however ,they were slowly added back. he tolerated slow titration ofbeta-blocker to goal heart rate and also addition of an aceinhibitor which was felt to be important given his extensive peripheralvascular disease and hislow ejection fraction.3. recrudescence of stroke-like symptoms in the setting of thepatient's acute hematocrit drop. the patient was noted to haveworsening slurred speech and a right facial droop. he does carrya history of left internal carotid occlusion and left-sidedstroke in the past. the neurology team was consulted for these acute deficitsand requested an mri. the mri showed basically old known strokes and asubacute rightinternal capsule stroke that was felt to be unrelated to hiscurrent symptomatology. he initially had hisantihypertensives to allow for maximal perfusion pressure. however , ashis coagulopathy resolved , it was felt that the stress thatresulted in the recrudescence of his old stroke-like symptoms wasresolved and he was able tolerate , further addition of hisantihypertensives without further incident.disposition:the patient was seen by physical therapy and given his recentbelow the knee amputation , it was felt to be best served by goingback to rehab.discharge medications: his discharged medications are asfollows:1. tylenol 650 mg q.4h. p.r.n. pain.2. aspirin 325 mg daily.3. colace 100 mg twice daily.4. lovenox 40 mg subcutaneously daily.5. nexium 40 mg daily.6. lasix 80 mg in the morning and 40 mg at night which his iogoals should be about -500 cc of fluid per day.7. neurontin 100 mg b.i.d.8. aspart 10 units subcutaneous with meals.9. aspart sliding scale.9. glargine 42 units daily.10. xalatan one drop.11. lisinopril 15 mg daily.12. toprol-xl 200 mg daily.13. niferex 150 mg daily.14. zocor 40 mg at night.15. flomax 0.4 mg daily.16. multivitamin one tablet daily.17. zinc 220 mg daily.18. plavix 75 mg po dailyfollow-up plan:the patient is to call his primary care physician , dr. lupe bario and his cardiologist , dr. mraw , followingdischarge from rehabilitation. at that time , he should haverepeat echocardiogram to assess his candidacy for an implantablecardiac defibrillator.escription document: 6-5034970 emssten teldictated by: dalenberg , alexattending: reichmann , terrelldictation id 1908962d: 4/30/06t: 4/30/06