record #24179001067521 | pmh | 51304511 | | 213780 | 2/29/1992 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 7/19/1992 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/11/1992admission diagnosis: status post transient ischemic attackcomplicated by a long history of vertigo.history of present illness: patient was in her usual state ofhealth until the day of admission whenshe had sudden onset of increased vertigo , dizziness , and nearsyncope as well as left leg weakness and dysarthria. she had amild frontal headache , no palpitations , no chest pain , and noshortness of breath. these symptoms lasted two to three hours withslow gradual improvement. she phoned her egmc doctor who referredher to moness medical center .  on admission , she complainedof no residual symptoms. she had no visual changes , no amaurosis ,no paresthesias or numbness , and was feeling at her baseline. herhistory , of pertinence , in 1988 , she had a syncopal episode. aholter at that time revealed some atrial fibrillation andnon-sustained ventricular tachycardia for which she was started onatenolol. in 1990 , she had a villous adenoma diagnosed andunderwent an abdominoperineal resection complicated bypost-operative atrial fibrillation. she ruled out for myocardialinfarction at that time. for the past year , she has describedintermittent episodes of dizziness , so called room spinning , andfatigue lasting for a few minutes occurring only once a month. shehas no other significant past medical history besides hypertension.allergies: she has no known drug allergies. she is a non-smokerand non-drinker. she is a french speaking woman who lives alonewith a number of family members nearby. current medications: shewas on atenolol 50 mg q.d.physical examination: she was a pleasant french speaking elderlywoman in no acute distress. vital signsshowed her to be afebrile , blood pressure 160/80 lying down , 160/80sitting up , pulse 70 lying down with pulse 76 sitting , andrespiratory rate 16. heent: examination showed normal cranium ,atraumatic , extraocular movements intact , and pupils equal , round ,and reactive to light. she had bilateral cataracts detected andher oropharynx was clear and within normal limits. neck: she hadno jugular venous distention , neck was supple , she had full rangeof motion , and her carotids were 1+ bilaterally with good upstroke.no bruits were appreciated. lungs: clear bilaterally. no spinalor costovertebral angle tenderness appreciate. cardiac:examination showed rate and rhythm were regular , s1 and s2 , an s4was appreciated , and no s3 with a i/vi systolic ejection murmur.abdomen: she had a colostomy , her abdomen was soft and non-tender ,positive bowel sounds , and no masses. extremities: no clubbing ,cyanosis , or edema. no rashes were appreciated. neurological:examination was non-focal. she was alert and oriented times threeand cranial nerves ii-xii were within normal limits. motorexamination showed 5/5 strength with no pronator drift and sensoryexamination was grossly within normal limits. deep tendon reflexeswere 1+ bilaterally and symmetric with downgoing toes andfinger-to-nose was within normal limits.laboratory examination: sodium 140 , potassium 4.1 , chloride 107 ,bicarbonate 22 , bun 28 , creatinine 1.2 ,and glucose 123. hematocrit was 38.2% , white count 11.2 with anormal differential , and platelets were 291. pt was 12.9 and pttwas 24.3. admission ck was 50. urinalysis revealed 60-80 whiteblood cells , no red blood cells , and 1+ squamous epithelium in thesediment. portable chest x-ray was within normal limits except fora tortuous aorta and admission ekg showed sinus bradycardia at 58 ,intervals 0.18/0.09/0.44 , an axis of negative 21 degrees , there wasevidence of left ventricular hypertrophy by voltage criteria , and aflipped t wave in iii which was new compared with an ekg of february1990. there were no acute st changes. head ct on admissionrevealed an old lacune in the right internal capsule , someparaventricular white matter low density changes with evidence of alacunar infarct in her right cerebellum which was of indeterminantage.hospital course: the impression on admission was that this was a75 year old white female with a history ofhypertension and a history of atrial fibrillation , non-sustained ,who presents with a two to three hour episode of vertigo and leftsided weakness which spontaneously resolved. she was admitted forfurther evaluation of this transient ischemic attack thought to bedue either a vertebovascular insufficiency syndrome , anteriorcirculation , carotid stenosis , or an embolus from a cardiac source.neurology was consulted and , in addition , she was entered on a ruleout protocol for a myocardial infarction. her abnormal urinalysiswas also of concern despite her lack of symptoms and she wasafebrile. repeat urinalysis was ordered and urine was sent forculture and sensitivity. hospital course over the next few days ,the patient remained completely asymptomatic except for anoccasional complaint of mild palpitations , occasional vertigo , andoccasional frontal headache. she was started on coumadin onhospital day number two for which she entered therapeutic range byhospital day number four. on hospital day number two , she had aholter placed which showed normal sinus rhythm for 24 hours exceptfor one five-beat run of ventricular tachycardia and two episodesof atrial fibrillation/flutter , the longest lasting thirteen beats.on hospital day number two , she had an echocardiogram which showedconcentric left ventricular hypertrophy without evidence ofthrombus or valvular disease. on hospital day number four , she hada carotid non-invasive study which revealed completely patentcarotid arteries without evidence of stenosis or atheroscleroticlesions. on hospital day number five , she had a magnetic resonanceimaging of her head with angiogram , the results of which werepending at the time of discharge. after being hospitalized forfive days , the patient was completely stable in therapeutic rangeon coumadin without focal neurologic findings and without obvioussource of her transient ischemic attack beyond a mild transientarrhythmia. therefore , she was discharged with instructions tofollow-up with her regular th physician for continued monitoringof her coumadin dosing and pt levels as well as long-terminstructions for follow-up care.disposition: discharge medications: atenolol 50 mg q.d. andcoumadin 5 mg q.h.s.sh207/3811emerson turano , m.d. sr07 d: 10/11/92batch: 3421 report: o9170j2 t: 9/1/92dictated by: mikel matarrita , m.s.cc: 1. art h. conda , m.d.[report_end]