605527151 | hmh | 91358655 | | 8353226 | 10/27/2005 12:00:00 am | anaphylaxis | signed | dis | admission date: 10/2/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/10/2005attending: iwanejko , collin m.d.admission diagnoses: anaphylaxis.associated diagnoses:1. congestive heart failure.2. hypertension.3. hypothyroidism.4. insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.5. polymyalgia rheumatica.6. diabetic retinopathy.7. urinary tract infection.8. adrenal insufficiency.history of present illness: the patient is an 86-year-old femalewith a history of polymyalgia rheumatica for which she takessteroids and has developed adrenal insufficiency. she presentedto the emergency room with shortness of breath , wheezing , and amaculopapular rash after receiving the pneumovax shot. shereceived this shot upon discharge from admission to the baybell lolic hospital for syncope and dehydration. the treatment therewas iv fluids in short course and increase in her steroids. inthe emergency room , she was treated with steroids , benadryl , andpepcid.past medical history: as above.hospital course by system:1. immunology: the patient was found to have anaphylacticreaction to the pneumovax shot that she received. hersymptoms resolved by hospital day #1 after receiving iv benadrylaround the clock , pepcid , and an increased dose in her hydrocortto 100 mg iv q.6h. the steroids were started on a taper and onthe night of the first admission , the patient was noted to have increasedshortness of breath andoxygen requirements. she was treated with oxygen and increasedsteroids again for presumed reexacerbation of anaphylaxis.2. pulmonary: the episode of wheezing that she had on the firstday of admission could also be partly explained by fluidoverload. by hospital day #2 , she had developed crackles andjugular venous distention. she has a history of diastolic heartdysfunction , and diuresis was initiated. despite receiving 3doses of iv lasix , she had an episode of flash pulmonary edema on thesecond night of hospitalization. a chest x-ray was obtained atthat time which was consistent with pulmonary edema. she wasstabilized with additional lasix and 100% nonrebreather mask , andnitroglycerin. her blood pressure was 200 systolic at that time.the plan for continued diuresis was interrupted on hospital day#3 when she became hypotensive and febrile with a ua consistent with infection.she was started on levo for presumed urosepsis.on hospital day #4 , diuresis was resumed as her blood pressurestabilized around 110 , and she still had a 5-6l oxygen requirement. thepatient reports her dry weight is 140 to 143 lbs. herprimary care doctor suspects it more like 149 lbs. she iscurrently receiving diuresis to wean oxygen requirement and isdown to 1 l per nasal cannula. her goal fluid status is tonegative 1 l per day , and she continues to receive lasix iv tomeet that goal.she was also restarted on p.o. lasix 30 mg p.o. daily. therewas some concern about aspiration by the nursing staff. sheimmediately had trouble with swallowing liquids and speech andswallow was consulted. the patient failed the bedside swallowexam and so a video swallow was obtained , which actually showedno evidence of aspiration , and so she was continued on a regulardiet. by the time of discharge she did not require any oxygen. she wouldintermittently desat to the high 80s , which would quickly resolve with deepbreathing or chest pt.3. endocrinology. the patient has a history of pmr and adrenalinsufficiency , on 30 mg of hydrocort daily at home. on themay , 2005 , in the setting of urosepsis she was placed back on stressdose steroids which was then tapered back to her home dose throughout therest of her hospitalization. she has a history ofdiabetes type 2 requiring insulin inhouse or oral agents. oralagents were held and insulin was given for glucose control , nph30 units in the morning and 10 units in the evening seemed tocontrol the a.m. and p.m. sugars pretty well. regular insulinwas added 6 units in the morning with breakfast with the morningnph for 1 p.m. blood sugar control , as this was the highest bloodsugar daily. obviously , this needs to be monitored and adjustedas needed as well the medicine staff is going to be following heras to whether she should resume the oral agents. she does onoccasion drop her blood sugar to 50 or 60 , which is usuallyasymptomatic.4. renal: her baseline creatinine was 1.0. both her bun andcreatinine were elevated with diuresis. her creatinine needs tobe monitored closely and medications need to renally dosed.5. infectious disease: her urine was positive for greater than100 , 000 group b hemolytic streptococci and she was initiallystarted with levaquin. it was switched to penicillin on january , 2005 , after the gram-positive organism was discovered and shewas switched back to levaquin after the sensitivities came back ,and it was sensitive to levaquin. the levaquin is ideal becauseher coughing could also represent bronchitis. she has complainedof a cough since weeks before admission , which is now resolving.6. disposition: the patient does not feel that she can care forherself at home and screening was placed to er medical center , and that was accepted for the acute care centerfor saturday , march , 2005.discharge instructions: the patient is just to follow up withprimary care physician. she should also follow up with dr.wann from pulmonary at the reddis hospital university of anappointment will be made for her. she should return to theemergency room if she experiences chest pain , further shortnessof breath , severe sweating , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , orother concerns.laboratory data: on discharge , glucose 116 , bun 30 , creatinine1.3 , sodium 139 , potassium 3.4; please make a note that herpotassium requires repletion and should be monitored; chloride93 , co2 33 , ck 34 , calcium 8.7 , magnesium 1.8 , troponin less thanassay. white blood cell count is 7.04 , hemoglobin 10.6 ,hematocrit 32.8 , and platelet 274 , 000. urinalysis , greater than100 , 000 with 4+ beta-hemolytic streptococcus group b , sensitiveto penicillin and cipro; with cipro being a better choice , i.e. ,levofloxacin because of her bronchitis.condition upon discharge: stable.see radiologic data. swallowing study on july , 2005 ,showed normal video swallow. portable chest x-ray on october ,2005 , showed new bilateral perihilar opacification consistentwith pulmonary edema. minimal left-sided effusion is present andthere are no pneumothoraces. the heart is normal in size.medications upon discharge: tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n.headache; aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily; albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mgq.4h. p.r.n. shortness of breath or wheezing , of note , this isnot the patient's usual medication , she does not have a historyof asthma or copd; dulcolax 5 mg p.o. daily; citrate of magnesia150 ml p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. constipation; benadryl 25 mg q.8h.p.r.n. wheezing or itching; colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.; lasix 20mg p.o. daily; robitussin 10 ml p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. cough;hydrocortisone 30 mg p.o. daily; insulin nph 30 unitssubcutaneously q.a.m.; insulin nph humulin 10 unitssubcutaneously q.p.m. , insulin regular humulin 6 unitssubcutaneously daily with breakfast; acidophilus 4 tablets p.o.t.i.d.; lactulose 30 ml p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. constipation;synthroid 88 mcg p.o. daily; senna tablet 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d.;multivitamin 1 p.o. daily; norvasc 5 mg p.o. daily , hold ifsystolic blood pressure less than 120; compazine 5 mg to 10 mgp.o. q.6h. p.r.n. nausea; lovenox 40 mg subcutaneously daily;potassium 20 meq daily , please note the potassium should bemonitored and potassium repleted as necessary; levofloxacin 250mg p.o. q.24h. 12 more total doses; nexium 40 mg p.o. daily;duoneb 3/0.5 mg nebulizers q.6h. p.r.n. , please note that this isnot a home medication; lumigan ou q.d.; novolog sliding scalesubcutaneously a.c. and h.s.; maalox p.r.n.allergies: the patient is allergic to sulfa , which causes arash; azathioprine , which causes fever; sertraline , which causesnausea; reglan , which causes angioedema; also the pneumococcalvaccine , which causes anaphylaxis.escription document: 8-9000706 sssten teldictated by: crunkilton , bradlyattending: carasquillo , mohammeddictation id 3128477d: 4/13/05t: 4/13/05