record #968181812857745 | lcfh | 10364873 | | 521624 | 6/10/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 9/20/1994 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/9/1994principle diagnosis: pleurisy , possibly secondary to a postviral syndrome.secondary diagnosis: 1. history of pulmonary emboli in 1971and in 1988.2. history of strep pharyngitis in augustof 1994 , treated with penicillin.history of present illness: this is a 54 year old female witha history of pulmonary emboli in thepast , now with complaint of four days of pleuritic chest pain andleft arm heaviness. coronary risk factors include a positivefamily history , no smoking , diabetes mellitus , hypertension orelevated cholesterol. the patient's history begins in 1971 when ,after a tubal ligation , she had a pulmonary emboli which was feltto be secondary to prolonged bedrest. she received heparin and wascoumadinized for one year. in 1988 she had lower abdominal pain ,extensive work up of which revealed a pulmonary emboli , and againshe was heparinized and coumadinized for one year. on july , 1994she developed the acute onset of intermittent chest pressure andleft arm heaviness , associated with night sweats. there was noshortness of breath , palpitations , light-headedness , nausea orvomiting. the pain was exacerbated by deep breaths as well asyawning and movement. it was not relieved by any factors. on themorning of admission the discomfort progressed from intermittent toconstant and was unrelieved with two advils , at which time shesubsequently presented to the w.coness- county general hospitalemergency ward. in the emergency ward her examination wasnegative. chest x-ray was negative. vq scan was with intermediateprobability. she received heparin and was subsequently transferredto the floor. she denied any fevers , chills , cough , shortness ofbreath , diarrhea , constipation , abdominal pain or dysuria. it isnoteworthy that the patient had an emergency ward visit on mayat which time she complained of sore throat. rapid strep test waspositive for strep pharyngitis. she was treated with a course ofpenicillin. past medical history: her past medical history is asabove. she also has a history of dysfunctional uterine bleeding ,iron deficiency anemia , lumbosacral disc disease , status postlaminectomy times three. medications on admission: medications onadmission are motrin prn. allergies: she has no known drugallergies. family history: her mother died from complicationsfrom hypertension. her father died from a cerebrovascularaccident. she has one sister who is deceased from burn injuries ,one brother who passed away from a myocardial infarction at age 57 ,and two brothers who passed away from natural causes. socialhistory: she is a clerk. she is divorced with five children. shenever smoked. she drinks alcohol occasionally. she has no hivrisk factors and no known tb exposures.physical examination: on physical examination she is awell-developed , well-nourished femaleappearing her stated age and in no apparent distress. temperatureis 98 , pulse 94 , blood pressure 140/88 , and respirations 16. heentshows extraocular movements were intact. oropharynx revealed noerythema , edema or exudate. mucous membranes were moist. neck wassupple with no lymphadenopathy. carotids were 2+ bilaterally.lungs revealed right basilar rales. coronary examination revealeda regular rate and rhythm with positive s1 and s2 and no s3 or s4.there were no murmurs , rubs or gallops. abdomen is soft andnon-tender with positive bowel sounds. there was nohepatosplenomegaly or masses noted. rectal was guaiac negative inthe emergency ward. extremities revealed no clubbing , cyanosis oredema. neurological examination was non-focal.laboratory data: sodium was 142 , potassium 4.1 , bun 15 , creatinine.8 , and glucose 74. liver function tests werewithin normal limits. ck was 697 with an mb of 8.5. white countwas 4.1 , hematocrit 37 and platelet count was 252 , 000. pt was12.5 , ptt 29.3. chest x-ray , which was a portable film , was clear.vq scan was read as intermediate probability. ekg revealed a sinusbradycardia at 54 with normal axis and intervals. she had flippedt waves in leads 3 , f , and v1 through v3 , biphasic t waves in v4 ,flat t waves in v5 and v6. there was poor r wave progression and qwaves in 1 and l.hospital course: it was felt that during the patient'spresentation the most likely diagnosis was apulmonary embolus , given her clinical history and her intermediateprobability of vq scan. the elevated ck with the very low mb wasfelt not to represent a myocardial infarction but to represent a ckleak from presumed pulmonary infarction. the patient washeparinized with the goal of maintaining her ptt in the 60 to 80range. she had a thrombotic work up sent off , namely anantithrombin 3 , protein c and protein s , all of which , with theexception of the russell viper venom , returned within normallimits. the russell viper venom is pending at the time ofdictation. the patient underwent lower extremity noninvasives onhospital day number one which returned as negative. she had a ddimer sent which was also normal. at this point the dvt team hereat the otver hospital was consulted , given theconflicted data for pulmonary emboli. the team felt that , giventhe patient's clinical history and the implications of chroniccoumadin therapy , that a pulmonary embolus should be definitelyruled out by pulmonary arteriogram. on hospital day number two thepatient underwent a pa gram which revealed a mean ra pressure of 7mm of mercury , a mean rv pressure of 12 mm of mercury , and nofilling defects to suggest a pulmonary embolus. at this point thepatient's heparin was discontinued. the day prior to obtaining thepulmonary arteriogram the patient had a good pa and lateral film ,which revealed no focal infiltrates and no effusions. on hospitalday number three the patient underwent an echocardiogram whichrevealed normal left ventricular size and mild left ventricularhypertrophy with vigorous function and no regional wall motionabnormalities. she had no pericardial thickening or pericardialeffusion to suggest pericarditis. she had structurally normalcardiac valves , no significant mitral or tricuspid regurge. shehad a minimal amount of aortic regurgitation and normal right heartsize and function. at this point , given the fact that the patientwas not felt to have a myocardial infarction , given her low mbtotal ck ratio , and also that she was not felt to have a pulmonaryembolus , given the negative pa gram , the diagnosis of pleurisysecondary to possible close viral syndrome was considered. thepatient was started on naprosyn at 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. on hospitalday number three , to which she responded quite well. afterdiscussion with the patient's primary doctor it was felt that ,given the fact that serious causes for pleuritic chest pain hadbeen ruled out , the patient's management could be followed in anoutpatient setting. on hospital day number four it was felt thatshe was safe to be discharged to home. operations and proceduresperformed during this hospitalization were pulmonary arteriogram bypa hospital on may , 1994. there were no complications.disposition: medications on discharge: discharge medicationsinclude naprosyn 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. with meals. thepatient is being discharged to home. follow up: she will followup with dr. owen albertine on november , 1994 at 1:30 p.m.dictated by: rudy ezzo , m.d. xa96attending: britt fogal , m.d. ib3  yq458/6388batch: 9990 index no. idib931zd d: 6/26/94t: 6/30/94[report_end]