982397252 | rh | 74249195 | | 5433323 | 3/10/2002 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 11/13/2002 report status: signeddischarge date:admission diagnosis: left fourth toe gangrene.history of present illness: the patient is a 49-year-old womanwith diabetes and well known to thevascular surgery service , status post multiple bilateral toeamputations. she was last here in april of 2002. the patient wasadmitted on march , 2002 for a planned left fourth toeamputation and vac sponge change by dr. ettelpast medical history: the patient's past medical history includeshypertension , coronary artery disease ,status post myocardial infarction , insulin dependent diabetesmellitus , history of seizures , status post cerebrovascularaccident , gastroesophageal reflux disease , and asthma.allergies: the patient's allergies include penicillin , aspirin ,nsaids , and pentazocine.medications on admission: at the time of admission , the patientwas on zestril 20 mg q.d. , plavix 75 mgq.d. , peri-colace 30 mg b.i.d. , niferex 150 mg b.i.d. , gabitril 12tit t.i.d. , flagyl 500 t.i.d. , lantus insulin 80 units q.h.s. ,ceftazidime 1 gm q. 8 , vancomycin 1 gm b.i.d. , esomeprazole 20 mgq.d. , prozac 20 mg q.d. , folic acid 1 mg q.d. , humalog slidingscale , lasix 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , dilaudid p.r.n. , dulcolax p.r.n. ,ofloxacin 0.3% ophthalmologic drops one ou q.i.d. , cosopt one dropou b.i.d. , brimonidine tartrate 0.2% ophthalmologic drops one ouq.i.d. , pred forte 0.12 b.i.d. drops both eyes.physical examination: physical examination revealed temperature tobe 98.7 , heart rate 72 , and blood pressure154/71. heent was negative. the chest was clear. the abdomen wasprotuberant , soft , and non-tender. the extremities revealed openamputations of the bilateral feet with 2+ femoral pulses andpalpable dp and pt pulses bilaterally with right greater than left.there was no evidence of cellulitis with a necrotic left fourthtoe.hospital course:1. vascular: the patient was admitted for the left fourth toeamputation , which occurred on april . this woundwas left open. she tolerated the procedure well with a vac changeoccurring on august at the bedside. at that time , it was notedthat , although , there was pink granulation tissue , the fifth toehad become ischemic and nonviable. therefore , the patient wastaken to the operating room on august for a left fifth toeamputation , which was also left open. that was tolerated well , butdid not seem to be viable secondary to ischemia and infection.therefore , on march , 2002 , she was taken to the operating roomfor a left transmetatarsal amputation of the third , fourth andfifth toes. dressing changes , wet-to-dry , were done. during thattime , it was noted that additional necrotic debris at the lateralaspect of the foot required more debridement , so she was taken tosurgery on april for debridement and a partial resection ofthe left fifth metatarsal. a vac was placed and changed onmarch at the bedside. on october , 2002 , the wound wasfelt to be clean enough and a split thickness skin graft was placedon the left foot , 75 square cm , and the donor site was the leftthigh. this seemed to be taking well. we continued with dressingchanges and a heat lamp to the donor site , which healed well. onfebruary , 2002 , we took her to the operating room again fordebridement of the left foot. the plantar aspect of the skin grafthad become discolored and we felt the infection requireddebridement. intraoperatively , the bone did not seem to beinvolved and , at this point , we had been continuing wet-to-drydressing changes and , as of january , 2002 , the plan was to takethe patient to the operating room on january , 2002 for anotherskin graft. now that the wound is clean , she has completedantibiotics.2. neurological: the patient has a history of a seizure disorder ,which has been stable on gabitril. she isstatus post stroke and is stable. for her depression , she receivesprozac. her pain is well controlled on a fentanyl patch withoxycodone for p.r.n. pain and dilaudid for breakthrough pain. thepatient also has occasional dizziness and this is treated withp.r.n. meclizine.3. cardiovascular: the patient has coronary artery disease and isstatus post a myocardial infarction , andhypertension , which is currently well controlled on lopressor 50 mgt.i.d.4. respiratory: the patient has asthma that has been stable andnot evidenced in the hospital.5. gi: the patient has a history of gastroesophageal refluxdisease , which is treated with esomeprazole. she is on adiabetic diet. she receives colace , senna , multivitamins , folicacid and niferex.6. gu: the patient is receiving lasix 100 mg b.i.d. at thismoment. her admission creatinine was 0.7 , peaked at 2.0on february , at which time we called a renal consultation , whosaid she was probably pre-renal acute renal failure secondary toace inhibitor , lasix and a new bunch of antibiotics. at that timewe held the ace inhibitor , held the lasix , and renally dosed theantibiotics , at which time her creatinine came down to 1.1 , whichis closer to her baseline. we have slowly restarted lasix and shehas tolerated that. we have since discontinued her antibiotics.7. heme: the patient's admission hematocrit was 25.7 , for whichshe received 1 unit of packed red blood cells onapril . she received another unit of packed red blood cells onnovember and her most recent hematocrit , on january , was 26.8.therefore , she is baseline anemic.8. infectious disease: this has been another major issue for thispatient. starting from the beginning , onoctober , the patient had a urinary tract infection with mixedflora , for which she was treated with a five day course of diflucanfor candida. on april , a wound culture of the left footshowed pseudomonas , which was resistant to multiple drugs ,multidrug resistant e. coli , and methicillin resistantstaphylococcus aureus , as well as multidrug resistant klebsiella.on february , when we went to the operating room for furtherdebridement of the left foot , we obtained deep cultures from theoperating room and found pseudomonas diphtheroid and klebsiella ,which were sensitive to vancomycin and cefotaxime. infectiousdisease had consulted on our patient and recommended vancomycin ,cefepime and flagyl and a two week course of these antibiotics fora soft tissue infection. it did not appear in the operating roomagain that the bone was involved in the infection. an mri onaugust , however , showed soft tissue swelling in the sinustract that was suspicious for osteomyelitis of the fifthmetatarsal , but , in consultation with infectious disease , vascularsurgery , her operative findings , and clinical picture , we decidedit looked more like a soft tissue infection and treated her for twoweeks with antibiotics.9. endocrine: the patient has diabetes mellitus and her bloodsugar control has been an issue throughout herhospital stay , slowly titrating up to her current lantus dose of150 units subq q.h.s. she seems to be doing well with that.10. ophthalmology: the patient is status post bilateral cataractsurgery and attempted filter for glaucoma inthe right eye and high pressure with pain , and proliferativeretinopathy with bilateral traction detachment. she was taking thefollowing medications: pred forte , cosopt , ofloxacin , and alphaganfor her eyes. on august , she had an ophthalmology appointmentfor floaters and that diagnosis was proliferative diabeticretinopathy , status post pan retinal phototherapy with vitreoushemorrhage. on october , she had an appointment with dr. saulsbury at277-598-1768 , who recommended to add timolol to her eye drops , andwill be following up with her.11. dental: the patient had an appointment on july , wherethey recommended a root canal of #18 and #19 forcaries. this root canal was done on january . the number of theclinic is 210-793-1150.12. skin: the patient received lotrimin , miconazole and woundcare to her right foot with regranex. the left foot isreceiving wet-to-dries q.d.13. tubes , lines and drains: the patient had a right picc lineplaced on october , 2002.discharge instructions:neurological: continue.cardiac: continue.respiratory: continue.gi: continue.gu: continue with monitoring of creatinine.heme: continue with monitoring of hospital course.infectious disease: no antibiotics needed , but follow left woundclosely and she is positive for methicillinresistant staphylococcus aureus , so she will need to be inisolation.endocrine: blood sugar control.ophthalmology: she need follow-up with her ophthalmologist abouther retinopathy , bilateral detachment and glaucoma.dental: she had a root canal done and will need follow-up.vascular: will need to follow her bilateral extremity examinationand the skin graft to her left foot to ensure properhealing. as well , she will be needing rehabilitation secondary toweakness and decreased mobility after these amputations. she isheel weight bearing on the left , weight bearing as tolerated on theright. goals will be to have bed mobility , transfers , dailytherapy with exercise , and the goal will be to ambulate 25 feetwith the least restrictive device.medications on discharge: at the time of discharge , the patientwas actively on , as of january ,lotrimin topical b.i.d. , colace 100 mg b.i.d. , fentanyl 150 mcgq. 72 hours , prozac 20 mg q.d. , folic acid 1 mg p.o. q.d. , lasix100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , heparin 5000 units subq b.i.d. , insulin slidingscale , lopressor 50 mg t.i.d. , niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,pred forte one drop ou q.i.d. , senna two tablets p.o. q.h.s. ,gabitril 12 mg p.o. b.i.d. , miconazole powder to groin b.i.d. ,regranex topical b.i.d. to right foot and cover with loose steriledressing , plavix 75 mg p.o. q.d. , cosopt one drop ou b.i.d. ,ofloxacin 0.3% ophthalmologic solution one drop ou q.i.d. ,esomeprazole 20 p.o. q.d. , lantus 150 units subq q.h.s. , andalphagan one drop ou q.i.d. she is currently using one touch ultraglucose pen stick for blood sugar draws. she gets tylenol p.r.n. ,natural tears p.r.n. , dilaudid p.r.n. for pain , milk of magnesiap.r.n. , meclizine p.r.n. , and oxycodone p.r.n.follow-up: the patient was instructed to follow-up with dr. tatain two weeks from the date of discharge.dictated by: judson jacquier , m.d. br069attending: damon janak , m.d. ea32aj254/041664batch: 94589 index no. tfyq307k43 d: 7/23/02t: 7/23/02