record #984180384866461 | bshamc | 24092986 | | 6254464 | 3/13/2005 12:00:00 am | hepatic abscess | signed | dis | admission date: 1/20/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 0/14/2005attending: reill , lazaro mdgilm community hospitalhistory of present illness:this is a 66-year-old female with a history of coronary arterydisease , chronic atrial fibrillation on coumadin , pulmonaryhypertension , insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , hypothyroidismwho presented in 4/27 with an apparent perforated appendicitisfor which she was taken to the operating room. final pathologyduring this procedure was serositis. her postoperative coursewas complicated by severe delirium , atrial fibrillation ,abdominal abscesses requiring ir drainage in 10/14 and 2/14 . the patient began having recurrent uti , decreased appetite andhematochezia at this time. on 3/10/05 , a ct of the abdomenshowed evidence of a colovesical fistula and the patient wasadmitted to the ore of for further management.on admission , she was found to be in acute renal failure with acreatinine of 2.3 apparently secondary to dehydration afterrecently having been started on lasix for hypertension by herprimary care physician.past medical history:1. coronary artery disease.2. pulmonary hypertension.3. chronic atrial fibrillation , on coumadin.4. hypercholesterolemia.5. asthma.6. insulin dependent diabetes mellitus.7. hypothyroidism.past surgical history:appendectomy in 4/27 . medications at home:1. atrovent b.i.d.2. metaxalone 2.5 mg daily.3. lipitor 10 mg daily.4. lasix 60 mg daily.5. atenolol 50 mg b.i.d.6. diltiazem 120 mg daily.7. potassium chloride 10 mg b.i.d.8. colace 100 mg t.i.d.9. folate.10. re1glan p.r.n.11. lisinopril 20 mg daily.12. wellbutrin 100 mg daily.13. protonix 40 mg daily.14. coumadin.allergies:no known drug allergies.hospital course:the patient was admitted to the anorwin hospital .  her creatinineimproved with iv hydration on 7/7/05 .  she was taken to theoperating room for exploratory laparotomy , cystoscopy withbilateral urinary stent placement , sigmoid colectomy with primaryanastomosis and diverting ileostomy. during the surgery , shebecame hypotensive requiring pressors due to inability to replaceiv fluid adequately. she was transferred to the surgicalintensive care unit , intubated on pressors. for the firstseveral days , she had a inflammatory response-type picture withsignificant vasodilation requiring pressors and massive ivresuscitation greater than 30 liters of fluid. sedation wasslowly weaned as the patient's respiratory status improved. dueto a question of responsiveness during the first several days , ahead ct was performed which showed no evidence of stroke. shebecame slowly more responsive as sedation was weaned with the useof precedex and was extubated on 7/23/05 , postoperative day 7without complications. her mental status in the intensive careunit continued to improve. the remainder of the patient'shospital course will be dictated via systems.neurologically , at the time of transfer out of the icu , thepatient was noted to have subtly improving mental status. herfamily described her at baseline. during her stay on the floor ,her zyprexa dose was decreased. she had no further neurologicissues.cardiovascular: in the intensive care unit , the patient requiredvasopressin initially and was weaned off during the first threeor four days. her chronic atrial fibrillation continued. shewas transferred out of the intensive care unit on iv lopressorwhich was gradually converted to p.o. as she tolerated a regulardiet. she was discharged on 100 mg q.i.d. of lopressor.respiratory: in the intensive care unit , she was noted to haverespiratory failure initially secondary to a sirs picture andfluid overload. this significantly improved with diuresis. shewas transferred out on a nasal cannula. on the floor , she had norespiratory issues. she continued her aggressive chest physicaltherapy and was out of bed with physical therapist.gi: in the intensive care unit , the patient was noted to have apostoperative ileus. she did not tolerate ng tube feeds. a postpyloric dobhoff was eventually placed and tube feeds wereinitiated. after transfer out of the intensive care unit , thepatient had difficulty with her dobhoff catheter and eventuallybecame clogged and had to be removed. a speech and swallowevaluation was obtained. a bedside swallow was equivocal and afiberoptic swallow was done. she passed this with fine colorsper the speech and swallow team and they recommended that herdiet be advanced as tolerated. she was discharged torehabilitation on a regular diet.gu: in the intensive care unit , she was massively resuscitatedinitially and then diuresed for virtually the remainder of herhospital course. an initial lasix drip was then changed to ivlasix boluses. she was discharged on p.o. lasix at an equivalentdose to her standing lasix during her hospitalization. acystogram was obtained prior to her discharge to rehab at thetime of dictation. the result of the cystogram are notavailable. if no extravasation is noted , her foley catheter canbe removed at rehabilitation. if extravasation is noted , shewill need to undergo a repeat cystogram at some point in thefuture prior to removal of her foley catheter.heme: the patient was initially on subcu heparin due to concernfor bleeding. she was then started on a heparin drip and wasdiscovered that she had bilateral lower extremity partial dvts.her heparin drip was titrated to a ptt of 60 to 80 prior todischarge to rehab. her heparin was discontinued and she wasstarted on lovenox as a bridge to coumadinization. her coumadinbegan during the few days prior to her discharge when she wastolerating p.o. intake.id: due to the colovesical fistula , concern for some liveropacities on her original abdominal cts , she was placed onbroad-spectrum antibiotics perioperatively. all antibiotics wereremoved on 7/23/05 .  she was noted to have a candidal uti ,completed a five-day course of fluconazole. a small fever in theintensive care unit warranted blood cultures being sent andrepeat blood cultures on 4/7/05 eventually noted agram-positive cocci. it was felt that this was likely due to acontaminant as the patient by that time had been afebrile forseveral days. however , she was started on vancomycin forgram-positive cocci , bacteremia. her central line was removedand a new central line was placed and she was discharged to rehabon day 9 of 14 of iv vancomycin via her central line. after thecompletion of this course of therapy , her central line may beremoved at rehabilitation.wound: due to some drainage from abdominal wound due to her fatnecrosis , the lower portion of the wound was opened. there wasno evidence of active infection noted and a vac sponge was placedinitially on 4/7/05 to facilitate the healing process. the vacwas changed every three days during her stay. this most recentchange was on 1/24/05 . discharge condition:stable.disposition:rehabilitation.discharge medications:as indicated on the discharge orders sheet.escription document: 7-5101426 emsdictated by: bliek , lawerenceattending: folson , timdictation id 4258353d: 9/19/05t: 9/19/05[report_end]