record #984247742668784 | ihc | 48808234 | | 703320 | 1/27/1993 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 0/29/1993 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/7/1993admission diagnosis: complete heart block.history of present illness: mr. lahm is a 43 year old malewith down's syndrome who was admittedwith multiple episodes of syncope over the prior 8-10 years. thesewere characterized by emesis followed by loss of consciousness witha question of seizure like activity. this had occurred on a yearlybasis for 8-10 years. such an episode occurred on march at thattime , his mother brought him to the harwelliew oker medical centers emergency roombecause he developed a facial hematoma after one of these episodes.physical examination: in the emergency room he was noted to besomewhat groggy with a brief episode ofapparent loss of consciousness with a question of apnea. he wassent to head ct for a scan and at that time he vomiting with lossof consciousness and a decrease in heart rate to 30 beats perminute. he was intubated in the ct scan room , sedated and paralyzedwhile the study was completed. when he arrived in the intensivecare unit , he had a heart beat in the 20s with complete heartblock , which was transient and with subsequent return to normalsinus rhythm. the remainder of his exam was remarkable for an s4and i/vi systolic ejection murmur. neuro: the neurological exam wasnonfocal.laboratory data: electrolytes were normal. his ekg showed sinustachycardia with an axis of 0 , st flattening inleads v5 and v6 , i in l and a question of a q in iii. chest x-rayraised the question of an infiltrate in the left base. the head ctwas negative. his course in the micu was as follows: he ruled outfor myocardial infarction , despite an elevated ck. the mb fractionwas negative on electrophoresis. on the morning of february , hespiked a temperature to 102.3 and was begun on penicillin. later onfebruary he had an episode of complete heart block with asystole for9 seconds. otherwise , he alternated sinus tachycardia and seconddegree heart block with runs of bradycardia at the rate of 30-40and also tachycardia.hospital course: a temporary pacemaker was placed on februarythrough the left subclavian approach. at thattime , he was hemodynamically stable , except for intermittenthypertension , which was treated with nifedipine. he wastransferred to the cardiology wa nas o on march , 1993 to awaitpacemaker placement. he was switched from nifedipine to captoprilfor treatment of his hypertension and his fever was treated withcefotetan for presumed aspiration pneumonia. this has resulted in adelay in his pacemaker placement. he intermittently had apericardial friction rub on physical examination that was thoughtto be most likely due to myocardial irritation by the pacing wireimplantation. one echocardiogram in a series did reveal a regionalwall motion abnormality that may have been a function of thepacemaker wire as well. he remained afebrile and completed a courseof antibiotics for his presumed aspiration pneumonia , althoughsubsequent chest x-rays did not support that diagnosis. herequired replacement of his temporary pacemaker wire while awaitingpermanent pacemaker placement to decrease the risk of infection.he underwent permanent pacemaker placement in the operating roomwith anesthesia backup in case there was need for intubationbecause the patient had difficulty remaining still. the pacemakerreplacement was performed on august , 1993. intubation was notnecessary.disposition: he tolerated the procedure well and was discharged tohome on march , 1993. medications: the medications atdischarge were: kefzol 500mg q.i.d. for 3 days , and lisinopril 10mgp.o. q day. he will followup with dr. antis on january , 1993 and intytaze th iono valley health with dr. filiberto schie secondary diagnoses were pacemakerplacement and down's syndrome.dictated by: olin e. zeledon , m.d. hj25attending: ulysses j. drane , m.d. ts0so547/1452batch: 2399 index no. d5gqoz62v6 d: 3/5/93t: 3/5/93[report_end]