record date: 2090-10-07 name:     olivo, kimberlymrn:      3299811 initial visit this is a 69-year-old white female coming for her fu visit. the patient has a history of type ii diabetes mellitus and pituitary adenoma andrecently was hospitalized at american legion hospital with general malaisesyndrome and back/chest pain.  initially the patient was seen at neligh clinic and cardiac ischemia was ruled out.  she was found to have a bloodpressure of 250 systolic at neligh clinic associated with persistentheadaches.  she was transferred to american legion hospital after beingfound collapsed on the floor of the hospital bathroom.  she was transferred to theintensive care unit at neligh clinic and treated for tonic-clonicconvulsions with diazepam and lorazepam. she also suffered a urinary tractinfection in hospital, treated with cipro.she was transferred to the american legion hospital on october 02, 2089,at which time she was awake but unable to give a history. on admission to american legion hospital she had a blood pressure of127/70, pulse was 80, and temperature was 99.3.  she had a myxedematous face andwas obese.  she was cardiovascularly stable.  neurologically, she was able to moveall four extremities with good strength and symmetrical reflexes.  cranial nervesintact.  initially, the impression was that patient suffered seizure secondary toelevated blood pressure.  most likely, she suffered hypertensive encephalopathy. patient underwent neurologic evaluation including mra of the brain, lumbarpuncture, both of which were negative.  electroencephalogram was  performed andshowed no epileptiform foci and diffuse temporal slowing bilaterally.  the patient'salertness and responsiveness increased gradually during the hospital stay.  she hadan episode of chest pain which was associated with some st flattening in the lateralleads.  acute cardiac event was ruled out.  the patient underwent a course ofphysical therapy and then, finally, was transferred to a rehabilitation facility.  aspecific cause of the patient's seizure was not found although it was assumed thatthis might have been provoked by the hypertensive encephalopathy associated withuse of ciprofloxacin for the treatment of the uti which could have lowered herthreshold for seizure activity.  upon discharge, the patient was in stable condition.past medical history:  remarkable for seizure, type ii diabetes mellitus,panhypopituitarism secondary to pituitary surg, hypertension, right arm bonetumor excision associated with right radial neuropathy, and hyperlipidemia.medications:  see lmr.family history:  negative.social history:  denies alcohol intake, smoking.review of systems:  denies visual or hearing disturbance, headaches,weakness, numbness, seizure activity, chest pain, palpitations, syncope, dyspnea,wheezing, cough, coryza, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, abdominal pain. positive for mild nocturia with no dysuria.  no polydipsia.  positive mildparesthesias right upper extremity.  occasional mid-morning reactions.  homeblood glucose monitoring b.i.d. with most glucose readings between 100 and 200. positive mild tiredness without any hoarseness, heat or cold intolerance.  mildarthralgia.  no bleeding, rash, pruritus. diet:  low salt.  mets 2-3. allergies:  sulfa, codeine, morphine. physical exam:  general appearance:  well-developed, well-nourished.  vitalsigns:  blood pressure 130/80, respiratory rate 18, heart rate 76, temperatureafebrile.  heent exam:  no exophthalmos, no lid lag, equally reactive pupils,difficult to visualize fundi; pharynx clear; ears clear.  neck:  no jvd, no bruits,thyroid within normal limits.   chest:  clear, no rales or wheezes.  heart soundsnormal.  no murmurs.  abdomen:  soft, nontender, no organomegaly.  extremities: no edema.  neuro:  awake and alert although at times forgets details of pasthistory; no focal neurologic signs.  a/p:  1.   type ii diabetes mellitus.good control.  plan - continue diet. 2.   panhypopituitarism secondary to  pituitary surgery for pituitary adenoma.      need to obtain record from surgeon for details on what type of tumor this     was.  patient on replacement therapy with levothyroxine and prednisone.      she will continue both with the understanding that should she become sick     for whatever reason she needs to double or triple dose her prednisone and     contact me.  she needs to wear a bracelet for this as well as for her diabetes.      3.   seizure disorder, ? etiology.  she saw the neurologist; she will need to remain on anti-seizure medications.  4.   hyperlipidemia:  plan - check fast lipid profile.  discussed with dr xavier;p:: lipitor 10 mg /d.5  cryptogenic cirrhosis, lft ok; discussed with dr xavier ; no absolute contraindication to lipitor.6  ? cad x family; no clear documet; p: adenosine mibi  since pt is diabetic and unable to perform exercis eett.wt loss ? etiol; ct abd neg and cxr neg; p: colonoscopy.refuses vaccinesto follow up in 2 months. isaac ng, m.d.in/rowe/yeater