197067530 | kvharc | 20930664 | | 7795735 | 10/23/2003 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: report status: signeddischarge date: 10/23/2003date of discharge: 10/23/2003attending: blake culberson mdthe patient was on the re hospitalprincipal diagnosis: small bowel obstruction.history of present illness: this is an 80-year-old woman with apast medical history of incarcerated umbilical hernia. she alsohas a history of coronary artery disease. she presented with oneday of substernal chest pain , shortness of breath , and nausea.the patient has normal angina pain , which is usually treated withnitroglycerin , but she had run out. the chest pain had resolvedwith nitroglycerin given in the ambulance. the patient alsocomplained of having abdominal pain for the past few days withsome nausea. her last bowel movement was two days beforeadmission with no flatus for the past two days as well. theabdominal pain was worst today. the patient was felt to have apartial small bowel obstruction in the emergency room and wasevaluated by both the surgical service and the medical service.past medical history: incarcerated umbilical hernia and a mitralvalve replacement with a st. jude valve in 1990. she hadcoronary artery disease with a clean catheterization in 2001 ,hypertension , diabetes , diverticulitis , status post a sigmoidcolectomy , and atrial fibrillation controlled with coumadin 3.5mg q.d.medications: lasix 80 mg q.d. , glyburide 5 mg q.d. , lisinopril20 mg q.d. , norvasc 10 mg q.d. , coumadin 3.5 mg q.d. , isordil 20mg three times a day , amiodarone 200 mg once a day.allergies: she has allergies to aspirin , penicillin , andsotalol.social history: she lives alone with no smoking and no alcoholuse.admission physical exam: vital signs: temperature was 96.8 ,heart rate was 76 , respiratory rate was 18 , blood pressure152/79 , o2 saturation was 94% on two liters. in general , she wasin no acute distress and pleasant. cardiovascular exam: she hadan irregular rhythm with audible s1 and s2. no s3 was heard. nomurmurs. no jugular venous distension. chest was clear toauscultation bilaterally. her abdomen had increased bowelsounds , was tympanitic , was diffusely tender. her extremitieshad no edema.labs: she had a white blood cell count of 14 , hematocrit of 42 ,platelets of 221 , 000 , sodium of 144 , potassium of 4 , chloride of109 , bicarb of 28 , bun of 20 , creatinine of 1.6 , blood glucose of200 , troponin i was less than assay , ck was 118 , inr of 2.6. kubx-ray showed dilated loops of small bowel consistent with smallbowel obstruction. ekg showed atrial fibrillation at 78 beatsper minute with an incomplete right bundle branch block , an oldinferior mi with loss of anterior fossa.hospital course: the patient's abdominal pain was most likelydue to small bowel obstruction secondary to a ventral hernia. itwas decided by the surgical service that the ventral herniashould be fixed operatively. the medical service evaluated thepatient , decided that her chest pain was her normal baselineangina and she had no acute coronary syndrome at the time ofadmission. recommendations were made to discontinue hercoumadin , allow her inr to fall to 1.8 before operating. thepatient was also to be given generous boluses of normal salinepreoperatively to avoid hypotension and tight blood sugar controlduring her hospital course. the patient was admitted to themedical floor before her operation and was scheduled for ventralhernia repair several days later. during her stay on thesurgical ward , the patient had developed complaints of new visualchanges described as objects of floating in her visual field. atthis point , a ct scan of the head was done to rule out an acutecerebral avascular accident. head ct was initially read asnormal. no acute bleed. however re-read as showing a left-sidedsub acute thalamic infarct of 10 days to 2 weeks age. at thispoint , a neurological consultation was obtained. the neurologyconsultant recommended an mri/mra of the head and neck toevaluate for possible hidden acute stroke and a carotidultrasound to assess her carotid artery patency. the mri/mra ofher head was negative , a carotid ultrasound was done which wasalso negative with no lesions similar to her previous carotidartery ultrasound of 10/1 a transthoracic echocardiogram wasalso done to evaluate for atrial clots. her echocardiogram waslargely unchanged from her previous echocardiogram of 2002. shehad normal left ventricular function with an ejection fraction of55% and moderate tricuspid regurgitation. given this negativeworkup for any acute stroke , it was decided to obtain anophthalmology consult to evaluate the patient's visual changes.the ophthalmology consultant attributed her visual changes tovitreous humor particulate matter , which is very common in olderpeople. it was most likely the cause of her visual changes. theophthalmology consultant recommended q.d. pred forte drops ineach eye for her status post corneal transplant.the patient was finally taken to the operating room on hospitalday 7 for ventral hernia repair. the operation was uncomplicatedwith minimal blood loss. postoperatively , the patient's courseprogressed well with good pain control , good progression of dietand good ambulation. postoperatively , the patient was restartedon coumadin and placed on iv heparin for prophylaxis secondary toher mitral valve prosthetic. the patient remained in thehospital for seven days after her operation for adequateanticoagulation with coumadin. on postop day 3 , the patient wasnoticed to have bright red blood in her urine. a urologicalconsult was obtained for evaluation of gross hematuria. cat scanshowed several centimeters of calcified bladder wall , which isindicative of infection versus tumor. however no gross tumormass was observed and the remainder of her collecting system wasnormal. the urological consult recommended follow up in urologyclinic in two to four weeks. the patient was then discharged onpostop day 7 to the awind pitwell medical center for continued physical therapy.discharge condition: stable.discharge medications: amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d. , vitamin b1215 mcg p.o. q.d. , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , folate 1 mg p.o.q.d. , glipizide 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. , isordil 20 mg p.o. t.i.d. ,lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d. , pred forte ophthalmic one drop eacheye q.d. for seven days , vitamin b6 50 mg p.o. q.d. , coumadin 7.5mg q.p.m. , norvasc 10 mg p.o. q.d.disposition: the patient will follow up with dr. weltch insurgery clinic in one week and the patient will follow up inurology clinic in two to four weeks.escription document: 9-3908985 emssten teldictated by: mckenzie , stephanattending: vukich , frankdictation id 5038792d: 11/11/03t: 11/11/03