record #739165655292621 | wwmc | 20395763 | | 7944452 | 3/29/2007 12:00:00 am | chronic obstructive pulmonary disease | signed | dis | admission date: 9/18/2007 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/24/2007attending: adil , eric mdprincipal diagnosis: copd exacerbation.secondary diagnoses: include pneumonia , acute renal failure andhyperkalemia.history of present illness: briefly this is a 60-year-old gentleman with copd on 3 liters home o2 and a history of multiplepast intubations to his noncompliant with his home oxygen therapyand chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine ofapproximately 2 , coronary artery disease status post end-stomy ,diastolic heart failure who presented to the emergency departmentwith shortness of breath , chest tightness and wheezing timesseveral days. he also complained of a productive cough and wasfound to have a room air oxygen saturation of 82% that improvedto the mid 90s on nonrebreather. he was admitted to the icuwhere he was started on bipap and given prednisone and nebulizertreatments. chest x-ray identified a right middle lobeinfiltrate and the patient was placed on vancomycin , levofloxacinand ceftazidime. ceftazidime was later discontinued. he wasquickly weaned to 5 liters nasal cannula. an abg checked onadmission showed partial co2 of 60 which is the patient'sbaseline. he was also found to be on acute renal failure with acreatinine of 4.9 that improved with gentle fluids. potassiumwas elevated at 6.4 and the patient did undergo a single run ofhemodialysis.past medical history: copd , coronary artery disease status postend-stomy , diabetes , chronic renal insufficiency , hyperlipidemiaand gout.home medications: include aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , norvasc 10mg p.o. daily , toprol 100 mg p.o. daily , avapro 150 mg p.o.daily , lasix 80 mg p.o. daily , lipitor 40 mg p.o. nightly , tricor48 mg p.o. daily , nph 55 units in the morning , 34 units in theevening , novolog 8 units q.a.c. , allopurinol 300 mg p.o. daily ,singulair 10 mg p.o. daily , albuterol 2 puffs p.r.n. , combiventp.r.n. , advair 500/50 b.i.d. , multivitamin once per day , folate 1mg p.o. daily and loratadine 10 mg p.o. daily.allergies: there are no known drug allergies.social history: a 30-pack-year history of smoking , history ofcurrent alcohol use , five drinks per day.physical examination: on transfer to the floor temperature is96 , pulse 82 , blood pressure 150/72 , respiratory rate is 24 ,oxygen saturation 94% on 5 liters nasal cannula. he is in noapparent distress. heart is regular rate and rhythm withoutmurmurs , rubs or gallops. he has good air movement butexpiratory wheezes and prolonged expiratory phase. there are norales. his abdomen is soft , obese , nontender and bowel soundsare present. there is 1+ pitting edema bilaterally.laboratory data: on admission to the floor , bun 211 , creatinine3.5 , potassium 4.4. white count 13.4 , hematocrit 25.8 , platelets492 and inr 1.3. microbiology , numerous blood , sputum and urinecultures are negative. studies and echocardiogram from 11/6shows an ef of 55-60% with no regional wall abnormalities.impression: this is a 60-year-old gentleman admitted for a copdexacerbation in the setting of likely pneumonia with acute onchronic renal failure and hyperkalemia that has resolved sincehis admission.hospital course by problem:1. pulmonary: the patient was kept on prednisone 60 mg p.o.daily for the first several days of his floor admission and hewas continued on duoneb q.6 h. , albuterol labs were added q.6 h.staggered with duoneb such that he was receiving nebulizertreatments every three hours. he was continued on chest pt. thepatient was started on cpap overnight for history of obstructivesleep apnea. he had not been compliant with cpap as anoutpatient. advair was continued. the patient did well withthis regimen and his oxygen requirements were titrated from 5liters to 2.5 liters at the time of discharge. at this level ofoxygen he was satting in the low to mid 90s with ambulatory satof approximately 90%. the importance of continuing use of homeoxygen both during the day and at night was discussed at lengthwith the patient , though he continued to complain that he haddifficulty going about his daily activities wearing his oxygen. prednisonewas slowly tapered and at the time of discharge the patient wastaking 40 mg of prednisone per day. he will take 20 mg startingthe first day after his discharge and will complete a slowapproximately 2-week taper. his home dose of lasix wascontinued. the patient was not felt to be clinically volumeoverloaded. however , he auto-diuresed 1-2 liters the majorityof the days he was admitted to the floor. followup was arrangedwith the patient's primary care provider and his pulmonologistdr. gering . the possibility of inpatient pulmonary rehabilitationwas discussed at length with the patient and his wife who wereextremely resistant to any other inpatient care. he is thereforedischarged with home vna , though the possibility of inpatient vs outpatientpulmonary rehabilitation should be considered at his followup.2. renal: the patient's creatinine trended down throughout histime on the floor. this happened in the setting of continuedauto-diuresis , suggesting that his initial renal failure was dueto a low flow state as result of heart failure rather thanhypovolemia. at the time of discharge his creatinine was 1.3.he was followed by the renal team during his admission. his arbwas initially held but then restarted upon improvement of hiscreatinine. per renal , his elevated bun in the range of 200 wasfelt to be secondary to steroid use. this had normalized by thetime of discharge. the patient was worked up for a possible avfistula or graft placement in the left upper extremity in thenear future. he will follow up with vascular surgery as anoutpatient for vein mapping as an outpatient. he should not receive blooddraws in the left upper extremity of avoidable.3. infectious disease: the patient was continued on vancomycinand levaquin for a seven-day course. he completed this courseduring this hospitalization and he discharged off antibiotics.all cultures were no growth at the time of discharge.4. cardiovascular: he was continued on aspirin andanti-lipidemics. his lopressor was titrated for hypertension andhe is discharged on 300 mg of toprol per day the rest of hisantihypertensive medicines have not changed. he was kept on teleduring his admission and did have occasional episodes of nsvtusually triplets or couplets. these were asymptomatic.5. endocrine: mr. vitro insulin requirements increaseddramatically during his icu admission , likely as a result ofsteroid use and stress. his insulin requirements fell to theirpreadmission levels during his admission on the floor.6. prophylaxis: he was maintained on heparin and proton pumpinhibitor.code status: the patient is full code.physical exam on discharge: he is in no apparent distress.heart , regular rate and rhythm without murmurs , rubs or gallops.his lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally without wheezes ,rales or rhonchi. abdomen is soft , obese , nontender , bowelsounds are present. he has trace peripheral edema bilaterally.discharge medications: please see remainder of dischargepaperwork.disposition: to home with vna. he should follow up with bothhis primary care doctor and pulmonologist. these appointmentshave been arranged for him.escription document: 5-2620781 cssten telcc: owen augusto m.d.son aville hospitalville stacc: rosendo waage mdm caan healthton- veca soloscc: lyman kea m.d.ards elk medical centerno spodictated by: tiotuico , rodneyattending: towse , jeffdictation id 5100910d: 9/4/07t: 9/4/07[report_end]