307838969 | th | 84045759 | | 3682788 | 10/19/2006 12:00:00 am | syncope | signed | dis | admission date: 8/20/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 8/6/2006attending: pekara , earnest mdservice: cardiology tonprincipal diagnosis: myocardial infarction.additional diagnoses: hypertension and diabetes.history of present illness: the patient is a 75-year-old malewith history of coronary artery disease , hypertension ,hyperlipidemia who presented with chest pain. the patient wasrunning up and down the steps on the day of admission when hedeveloped an 8/10 substernal chest pain radiating to his leftarm. the patient denies any associated shortness of breath , buthe did note diaphoresis. the pain persisted for about 20minutes. the patient called the ems but by time he was callingems the pain was dissipating. the patient reports no chest painsince his last non-st elevation mi in 2001. of note , the patientis a very poor historian and has no recollection of past medicalhistory or medications. in the emergency room , the patient waspresented with the blood pressure of 172/79 , heart rate of 88 ,and was given iv metoprolol and aspirin. the patient's bloodpressure was difficult to control and he received additional ivlopressor , hydralazine , and nitro paste.past medical history:1. hypertension.2. cad status post mi in 2001.3. history of stroke.4. diabetes , last hemoglobin a1c of 6.9 in september 2005.5. hyperlipidemia.6. prostate cancer status post xrt in 1999.7. history of ckd with baseline creatinine of about 1.3.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications on admission:1. metformin 1000 mg p.o. b.i.d.2. zocor 80 mg p.o. daily at bedtime.3. monopril 40 mg p.o. daily.4. glyburide 10 mg p.o. once daily.5. omeprazole 20 mg p.o. once daily.6. felodipine 10 mg p.o. once daily.7. aspirin 81 mg p.o. once daily.8. hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. once daily.9. nph 10 units subcutaneously each evening.social history: the patient is a retired truck driver who liveswith his second wife in font the patienthas a history of alcohol and tobacco use but quit about fiveyears ago. the patient denies any drug use.family history: the patient has a sister with heart disease inher 40s.physical examination on admission: vital signs: temperature97.4 , heart rate 69 , blood pressure 160/70 , respiratory rate 14 ,sating 90% on 2 liters nasal cannula. in general , the patientwas awake , alert , and in no acute distress , but answered thequestions slowly and had an unusual affect. heent: pupils wereequal , round , and reactive to light. mucous membranes were moistand oropharynx was clear. neck: jvp less than 10 cm , supple , nolymphadenopathy. pulmonary exam: lungs were clear toauscultation bilaterally. cardiovascular exam revealed normals1 , s2 with no murmurs , rubs , or gallops. abdomen was obese ,soft , nontender , nondistended with positive bowel sounds.extremities were warm and well perfused without edema. thepatient had 1+ distal pulses bilaterally. neurologic examrevealed cranial nerves ii-xii were intact. exam was otherwisenonfocal.laboratory data on admission: the basic metabolic panel ( bmp )was notable for bun and creatinine of 28 and 1.6 , magnesium of1.5. cbc revealed a white count of 7.6 with a hematocrit of 43.6and platelet count 194. cardiac enzymes were as follows , thepatient initially had a cpk of 84 with an mb fraction of 1.4 , andtroponin level was less than assay. the patient's desat had atotal ck of 88 and a ck-mb of 2.1 and troponin was 0.58. chestx-ray had no infiltrates , no effusions. ekg revealed normalsinus rhythm with pacs , normal axis intervals , with some t-waveflattening in v5 , v6 , 1 and avl.impression: the patient is a 75-year-old male with known cadstatus post mi in 2001 status post an rca stent at that time. itwas thought unlikely that the patient had flow-limiting coronaryartery disease leading to a non-st elevation mi.hospital course by problem:1. cardiovascular:ischemia: the patient's chest pain was concerning forflow-limiting coronary artery disease. the patient was continuedon aspirin and loaded with plavix upon admission. the patientwas anticoagulated with 1 mg/kg doses of lovenox q.12h. thepatient was started on a beta-blocker and given 80 mg of lipitor.the patient underwent a diagnostic cardiac catheterization onthe day of admission , which showed a right dominant system withno significant left main lesions. the patient did have aproximal 90% lad lesion as well as a proximal left circumflexlesion estimated to be about 80%. the patient also had midcircumflex lesion that was also estimated at 80%. the rightcoronary artery had a proximal 50% diffuse lesion and a distal40% tubular lesion. right pda had a tubular 90% lesion in themid portion as well as a 90% discrete lesion in the proximal pa.as the patient was found to have three-vessel disease and ahistory of diabetes , surgical revascularization was considered.the patient was evaluated by the cardiothoracic surgical servicewho discussed the case at length with the attending cardiologiston service. in the end , it was decided by both the attendingcardiologist and the attending cardiothoracic surgeon in contactwith the patient and his wife that the best option at this timewas for percutaneous intervention as it was thought that thepatient would have significant difficulty postoperatively becauseof his significant dementia. we felt that the patient would havea difficult time with the necessary rehabilitation following cabgand that percutaneous intervention would indeed be the bestoption. therefore , the patient underwent a repeat cardiaccatheterization. the patient had a cypher stent placed to themid lad lesion. the om2 lesion was also stented with a cypherstent across the non-diseased ostium of om1 and then the proximalleft circumflex lesion was also stented with a cypher stent. thefinal angiograms during this catheterization showed no residualstenosis or dissection. the plan was for the patient to returnon an outpatient basis for potential percutaneous intervention tothe pda/plv and a stenting of the left renal artery which wasfound to be stenotic and likely contributing to the patient'srefractory hypertension and chronic kidney disease. the patientdid well following his percutaneous interventions and he wasdischarged on a regimen including aspirin , plavix , toprol , andzocor. the patient will follow up with dr. ruud in thenext few weeks for possible repeat percutaneous intervention.pump: the patient has no history of chf. an echocardiogramduring this admission revealed moderate concentric lvh with basalanterior septum basal inferior segment hypokinesis. ejectionfraction was estimated at 60%. the patient remained euvolemicfor the remainder of the admission. the patient was continued onhis dose of ace inhibitor. the patient has a long history ofrefractory hypertension. the patient's hypertension was likelyexacerbated by a left renal artery stenosis found on his cardiaccatheterization. the patient was continued on his home bloodpressure regimen and additional agents were used as needed tocontrol his blood pressure. the patient was discharged on ablood pressure regimen that include felodipine 10 mg p.o. oncedaily , toprol-xl 150 p.o. once daily , isosorbide dinitrate 20 mgp.o. q.8h. , and monopril 40 mg p.o. once daily. of note , thepatient was on hydrochlorothiazide as an outpatient but this washeld as he recently received multiple doses of iv contrast. thepatient's hydrochlorothiazide can be restarted by his primarycare physician after ensuring that his creatinine is okay.rhythm: the patient was monitored on telemetry during thisadmission and had no issues.2. renal: the patient has a history of chronic kidney diseasewith a baseline creatinine 1.3 to 1.6. the patient receivedmucomyst and sodium bicarbonate. continue iv fluids in the pericatheterization period. the patient's creatinine remained withinhis baseline range throughout this admission. the creatinine atthe time of discharge was 1.5.3. endocrine: the patient has a history of diabetes , which wascontrolled with both insulin and oral agents. oral agents wereheld during this hospitalization and the patient was managed withboth long and short acting insulin. the patient's blood sugarswere well controlled and he was discharged on his home regimenincluding metformin , glyburide , and nightly nph.4. neurology: the patient has a history of dementia , which wasthought to be multiinfarct in nature. the patient did haveseveral episodes of agitation and sundowning during thisadmission. the patient required medications to control these ,rather he was oriented and spoke with his wife on severaloccasions. the patient had a workup for reversible causes ofdementia including a tsh , b12 , and an rpr. the tsh and b12 werewithin normal limits. the rpr was pending at the time of thisdictation.discharge medications:1. aspirin 325 mg p.o. once daily.2. nph 10 units subq daily at bedtime.3. isosorbide dinitrate 20 mg p.o. q.8h.4. nitroglycerin 1/150 one tab sublingual q.5 minutes x3 p.r.n.chest pain.5. felodipine 10 mg p.o. once daily.6. plavix 75 mg p.o. once daily.7. toprol-xl 150 mg p.o. once daily.8. metformin 1000 mg p.o. b.i.d.9. zocor 80 mg p.o. daily at bedtime.10. omeprazole 20 mg p.o. once daily.11. glyburide 10 mg p.o. once daily.12. monopril 40 mg p.o. once daily.follow up appointments: the patient was to follow up with dr.sferra on 7/15/2006 at 11:00 a.m. at the asi hospital care .  the patient is to follow up with his primarycare physician , dr. lovern , on 2/27/2006 at 8:30 a.m. at the hosston hospital as scheduled.discharge instructions: the patient was discharged home withservices. the vna was instructed to draw a bun and creatinine on1/27/06 and page dr. cody amparo , pager number 36157 , withthe results. the vna was also asked to reconcile the patient'smedication list with his discharge medication list and to clarifyany discrepancies with the patient's primary care physician , dr.toby . also , of note , the patient was instructed to discuss withdr. sikkink the fact that his hydrochlorothiazide was held prior tohis discharge. hydrochlorothiazide can be restarted provided thepatient's creatinine remains within his baseline range followingdischarge.disposition: the patient was discharged home with services instable condition.code status: the patient remained full code throughout thisentire admission.escription document: 0-0728869 hffocuscc: brain a. battistini m.d.a vall occ: gail cobane m.d.norgug atmar woodsol hospitallin , minnesotadictated by: bendler , raymonattending: wyborny , ralphdictation id 0168115d: 10/7/06t: 10/7/06