956541241 | ph | 29831803 | | 6128114 | 11/23/2004 12:00:00 am | osteomyelitis | signed | dis | admission date: 5/22/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/10/2004attending: cortez derick sadlier mdhistory of present illness: the patient was admitted on 9/14/04for a right plantar surface neurotrophic ulcer secondary todiabetes mellitus. the patient has a long-standing history ofperipheral neuropathy and slight history of peripheral vasculardisease. this has been treated thus far by podiatricdebridements until the day of admission when the patientpresented low-grade fevers and chills. the patient also has ahistory of diabetes mellitus , hypertension , distant past ofpancreatitis , gout , neuropathy , high cholesterol , and chronicrenal insufficiency. he has had a left fourth and fifth toeamputation before. he has also undergone recent eye surgery ofunknown origin and had some unknown pancreatic surgery in 1968most likely for phlegmon or some sort of pancreatic condition.the patient was admitted on 9/14/04 with a right plantar surfaceneurotrophic ulcer as well as recent history of low-grade feversand chills.the patient notes that the ulcer came about after some unknowntrauma to the foot. he had been followed by podiatrist and hadoutpatient mri revealing osteo at the fifth metatarsal head andthe fourth metatarsal shaft , presented to the egan healthcareemergency department after having a fever of 101.3 degrees. onadmission , the patient had a low-grade fever of 99.7 degrees ,pulse in the 90s , respiratory rate 16 , and blood pressure 144/67.he was saturating 95% on room air.medications:at the time of admission were as follows:1. lantus 100 mg q.p.m.2. humalog 20 units q.p.m.3. humalog sliding scale.4. neurontin 300 mg t.i.d.5. lisinopril 40 mg q.d.6. allopurinol 300 mg q.d.7. hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg q.d.8. zocor 20 mg q.d.9. tricor 50 mg b.i.d.10. atenolol 25 mg q.d.11. eyedrops prednisolone and atropine.12. the patient was on iron supplementation.physical examination: notable findings and/or that the patienthad clear breath sounds and regular rate and rhythm. on cardiacexamination had a slight murmur 2/6 along the left sternal borderand otherwise had a obese abdomen. the extremities and backrevealed no abnormalities except for a right foot ulcer along thefourth and fifth metatarsal distal heads. the patient also had asomewhat cyanotic appearing and somewhat edematous and swollenfifth right toe. the patient had decreased sensation bilaterallyin the feet up to mid shin. the patient also had a known historyof drug allergies.laboratory data:at the time of admission , the patient's significant labs were asfollows , his potassium was 4.3 , bun was 38 , creatinine was 3.2 ,and his blood glucose was 187. his white blood cell count was12.6 and hematocrit was 27.8.hospital course:the patient was admitted to the vascular surgery service underdr. tosco and was started on vancomycin , levofloxacin , andflagyl. he continued to have low-grade fevers over the course ofthe next three days. finally , on hospital day 3 , had a fever of103.2. it was decided that at the time of admission , the patientwould need to undergo an amputation of the third and fourth toeas well as metatarsal heads to remove the infected bone andsource of osteomyelitis. on hospital day 3 , the patient wastaken to the operating room. it should be noted at that timethat the patient's creatinine bumped before his operation from abun of 39 and a creatinine of 2.1 to a bun of 59 on hospital day3 and a creatinine of 3.9. this occurred coincidentally the dayafter the patient had several mris of is lower extremities tobetter understand the vascular supply to his lower extremities.therefore , the patient had contrast dye. although , this dye wasgadolinium , which is sued commonly for mra and is not usuallyassociated with any soft of renal toxicities.the patient was taken to the operating room on hospital day 3 fora right fourth and fifth toe amputation and nonhealing ulcerdebridement. please refer to the operative note by dr.guemmer for further details. the patient tolerated theprocedure without any problems and the patient control wasadequate by postoperative day 1. however on postoperative labcheckup , it was see that the patient's creatinine bumped to 4.9with a bun of 61. this was viewed and was monitored by serialbun and creatinine checks. the following , bun and creatininecame back at 69 for bun and 5.2 for creatinine. on postoperativeday #1 , the patient's creatinine continued to rise and was foundto be 6.5 with a bun of 81. at this point , the renal service wasconsulted for further input as far as possible causes of acuterenal failure in the phase of chronic renal insufficiency andpostoperative period. the patient's vancomycin level came to bein the therapeutic range of 30.8. fena was checked whichrevealed 0.74% fena. this was rechecked and revealed a fena of0.97% both , which indicated prerenal failure. renal team alsoadvised checking for other causes of the patient's anemia as wellas other causes of the renal failure. labs have been sent andsome are currently pending regarding the c3-c4 and anti-gmbantibodies.the patient's creatinine continued to rise despite advancedmanagement including with iv resuscitation , fluid volume boluses ,and occasional boluses of lasix. eventually , the patient's bunand creatinine rose to 94 and 8.3 by postoperative day 2. by thefollowing day , however postoperative day 3 , the patient'screatinine and bun began resolving that bun of 95 and acreatinine 7.8. however , at the same time , the patient beganhaving hypoglycemic episodes in response to the lantus dose thathe was getting at home and continue to get here in hospital. itwas summarized by the renal team as well as by the surgicalservice and that the patient may have not been taking hismedication at home and now was being his medications , while herein the hospital. by postoperative day 4 , the patient continuedto have dysregulation of his fingerstick blood glucoses rangingfrom a high of 367 to a low of 52 where she began to besymptomatic , somewhat somnolent , and groggy.this patient's blood glucose control was evaluated by thediabetes management service and it was summarized by them thatthe patient's renal insufficiency had a significant role in thepatient's hypoglycemic episodes and that he ended up havinginsulin toxicity due to poor creatinine clearance and renalfunctioning level. it should be noted that in light of thispatient's postoperative complications of acute renal failure inthe phase of chronic renal failure and chronic renalinsufficiency , the patient never required a hemodialysis becausethe potassium levels remained stable. the high that the patientreached was 5.6 of potassium on the same day that he had acreatine of 8.3 , which was on postoperative day #2 , this wastreated with kayexalate and along the same lines , the patient'smedications were evaluated and it was decided to decrease it tob.i.d. dosing and to start holding lisinopril , neurontin , andvancomycin for their possible renal toxic effects. a renalultrasound was obtained on postoperative day #1 as well asdoppler flow studies. the renal ultrasound revealed normalparenchyma with somewhat decreased renal indices indicating somedecreased amount of blood flow to their kidneys. at the sametime , an mra of the renal arteries was obtained which revealed nostenosis lesions of the kidneys.the patient was eventually started on phoslo and ferrlecit aswell as epogen 10 , 000 units q. week at the recommendation of therenal service. this was continued during the duration of thepatient's stay and should continue in the postoperativehospitalization. in light of this postoperative complications ,the creatinine became stable by postoperative day 3 and bloodpressure medications were restarted at previous doses and weretitrated to the need that the patient demonstrated by his bloodpressure control. this was eventually attained on atenolol at150 mg q.d. however , renal service recommended that the patientbe given lopressor 100 mg b.i.d. this seems to have controlledthe patient's blood pressure for the time being. physicaltherapy was also involved in evaluating the patient and assistedin the management of this patient's care.it should also be noted that a wax sponge was placed on thepatient's right open wound. this was placed on postoperative day#3 , 4/18/04 .  the patient seems to be tolerating this well. thediabetes management service , the physical therapy , and the renalteams continued to follow the patient closely during the durationof his stay until it was felt that the patient's postoperativecomplications and issues including blood glucose control as wellas renal insufficiency were under control. from an operativestandpoint , the patient tolerated the procedure well and it wasdecided to continue the patient on levofloxacin for a one weekcourse and the patient is to be discharged to the rehab facility ,which is the still freedral hospital for their ability tocare for wax sponge excellently.the patient was seen by dr. ulvan in the renal staff and by thediabetes management service by dr. clint holets , pager #596-76. thephysical examination at the time of discharge was unchanged fromthe previous few days where the patient was seen to have adequatedoppler signal in all his pedal pulses , dps as well as pts and afaintly palpable right dp and as well as faintly palpable leftdp.discharge medications:the patient is to be discharged on the following medications ,tylenol 650 to 1000 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. for temperature greaterthan 101 , allopurinol 100 mg p.o. q.d. , enteric-coated aspirin 81mg p.o. q.d. , lopressor 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , phoslo 1334 mg p.o.q.a.c. , please give with meals , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , epogen10 , 000 units delivered subcuticularly q. week starting on monday ,already given one dose intra hospital stay. please give the nextdose on 7/9/04 or 07 , iron 325 mg p.o. t.i.d. , percocet 1to 2 tablets p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain , prednisolone 1% one drop inthe effected eye b.i.d. , zocor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , neurontin 300mg p.o. b.i.d. , atropine 1 mg one drop in the affected eye ,levofloxacin 250 mg p.o. every morning starting on the 10/6/04and continuing for one week , lispro 6 units subcuticularlyq.a.c. , hold if the patient is not eating much or if the patientdoes not have a meal sitting right in front of him at the time ofdosage and also lispro sliding scale as per the discharge paperwork in which the patient receives two units if the blood glucoseis between 125 to 150 and onwards from there 3 units for 150 to200 , and so forth. please also give the patient half his slidingscale dose at the bedtime if his blood glucose is greater than200 and recheck his blood glucose 1 to 2 hours later , tricor 54mg p.o. q.d. , lantus 25 units subcutaneous q.d. , and duoneb 3/0.5mg nebulizer q.6h. p.r.n. wheezing.the patient is to be followed up at the rehab facility at ing mansy general hospital .  please also note , the patient should follow up with therenal service as per the discharge report in two to three weeksas well as dr. knaub as per the paper work in one to twoweeks. the wax sponge should be change every three days andplease follow up with dr. zaxas regarding the longevity ofthe wax sponge.he should follow up with dr. amos as well as the attendingin the renal service dr. riech . the clinic number for the renalservice is 7817612.escription document: 6-8401296 emssten teldictated by: wuerz , sandyattending: cowan , wilbur miqueldictation id 9146558d: 3/9/04t: 3/9/04