186937457puomc18485483896097385877/15/1998 12:00:00 amdischarge summaryunsigneddisreport status :unsigneddischarge summaryname :slemneavkote , pauciunit number :214-61-48admission date :07/15/98discharge date :07/30/98cause of death and principal diagnosis :subarachnoid hemorrhage .associated diagnosis :atrial fibrillation , hypertension , epistaxis and history of cerebrovascular accident .principal procedure :ventriculostomy placement on 7/15/98 .associated procedures :cerebral angiogram on 7/15/98 and flexible bronchoscopy on 7/16/98 and 7/27/98 .history of present illness :mr. a was a 74-year-old right handed white male with a history of left middle cerebral artery cerebrovascular accident who on july 15th was asleep and awoke at approximately 1:00 am with the worst headache of his life .per his wife , the patient had been in his regular state of health except for complaints of a bifrontal severe headache .he had a photophobia and thereafter some nausea and vomiting .per his wife , he was otherwise without any symptoms .he was taken first to vaila medical center where he arrived at about 3:00 am and a ct scan showed ? basal subarachnoid hemorrhage and hydrocephalus .he was loaded with dilantin , placed on decadron and transferred to the ph university of medical center .past medical history :remarkable for cerebrovascular accident in 1994 .medications on admission :coumadin 3 mg. per day prior to admission .physical examination :he was found to be an obese male with eyes closed .he was vomiting and sleepy .his vital signs were remarkable for a blood pressure of 195/100 .his mental status exam showed him to be very sleepy and he moved to sternal rub and loud voice .he was oriented to his name , ph university of medical center and 1997 and was able to follow simple commands .his motor exam showed a slight right drift and he was not cooperative with cerebellar testing .his physical examination also showed pupils at 3-2 mm. bilaterally and he blinked to threat .his inr was 3.8 on admission .summary of laboratory and radiologic examinations :a ct scan on admission showed a pre-pontine subarachnoid hemorrhage with minimal spread to the sylvian fissure .he had significant hydrocephalus with a small intraventricular hemorrhage .hospital course and treatment :mr. a was admitted to the neurosurgery service with a diagnosis of subarachnoid hemorrhage and hydrocephalus .he was found to be unable to protect his airway , so was intubated in the emergency room .his anticoagulation was immediately reversed with ffp and he received several additional units of ffp during the hospital course .he had a cerebral angiogram performed on july 15th which was unrevealing .it showed no aneurysm and no dissection and no shunting lesions .he had a ventriculostomy placed by the neurosurgery service on july 15th .mr. a was transferred to the neuroscience intensive care unit on july 15th .neurologically , his lesions were inoperable , but he received treatment with dilantin and the ventriculostomy tube to control his intracranial pressure .his neurological exam deteriorated over the first week of admission to the extent that he was at times responsive to voice by opening his eyes , but was not able to follow commands .he moved his left side more than his right side in response to stimulation .cardiovascularly , he developed atrial fibrillation and hypertension during the hospital course and was managed by dr. gach of cardiology .infectious disease issues included serial fevers of unknown source .cultures from multiple sites never grew out any organisms .he was on antibiotics for several days while in intensive care .gastrointestinally , he was unable to tolerate tube feeds and was started on total parenteral nutrition .pulmonary wise , he was maintained on a ventilator throughout the hospital course until the day of expiration .mr. a &apos;s neurologic condition was stable at the baseline exam as described above .his family had a meeting with dr. liftjesc , dr. telshey vital , and dr. tineara rhalt of the neurosurgical icu .this meeting took place on july 30th from 10:00 am until approximately noon .the family decided at this time that they wished to withdraw care from mr. a .they wished that he be extubated and that all medical treatment except for comfort measures be pursued .accordingly , the wishes of the family were attended to .at approximately 1:45 pm on july 30th , his ventriculostomy tube was discontinued .shortly thereafter , his arterial line was removed .following this , at approximately 2:05 pm , his endotracheal tube was removed .mr. a immediately became bradycardic and desaturated .at 2:10 pm on july 30th , he expired .mr. a , was immediately notified .she refused an autopsy and agreed to donation of needed organ or tissue .the ph university of medical center admitting desk was also notified as were dr. liftjesc , dr. telshey vital , dr. azel hibbskays , and the patient &apos;s primary care physician , dr. tomedankell flowayles .the ebeairs baxt insum general hospital was contacted .say reke , m.d.dictating for :telshey k. vital , m.d.tr :uevdd :07/30/98td :07/30/98 3:21 pcc :ketyvi l liftjesc , m.d. telshey k vital , m.d. tomedankell d flowayles , m.d. , ph.d say reke , m.d. stat