record #740622370143966 | mh | 63813933 | | 5862026 | 8/25/2004 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 8/25/2004 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: damian gruhn mdaddendumdate of discharge is to be determined.service:general medical service bile portin summary , this patient is a 73-year-old lady with a history oflow back pain , sciatica , morbid obesity , spinal stenosis ,hypothyroidism , hypertension , diabetes mellitus , posthepaticneuralgia , rheumatoid arthritis , renal insufficiency , deep veinthrombosis , bilateral total knee replacement secondary todegenerative joint disease , who is admitted on 11/28/04 forworsening low back pain. the following is a continuation of thehospital events during her stay.1. low back pain: as stated before , she suffers fromdebilitating low back pain from morbid obesity , spinal stenosis ,rheumatoid arthritis , and degenerative joint disease. during herhospitalization , her pain was treated with narcotics as well as asteroid/analgesic epidural injection. the pain service followedduring her discharge day. her pain control with narcotics wastitrated with a fentanyl patch along with breakthrough p.o.dilaudid. she was also titrated up on her chronic painmedications including neurontin and elavil. the patient had ahistory of sedation with too much narcotics , and her narcoticsshould be titrated for mental status changes. during her stay ,she received iv conscious sedation mri , which showed a normalspinal cord and spinal stenosis , facet involvement. orthopedicssurgery was consulted early during the hospitalization and theydetermined that there was no surgical indication for orthopedicsurgery. they were also reconsulted later on when the patientappeared to want to have surgery , and at that time orthopedicssurgery determined that the risk-benefit ratio was not in favor ,and that she was not a surgical candidate in the context of anewly developed right lower extremity dvt. as mentioned before ,the patient had an epidural injection with bupivacaine andsteroids on 2/11/05 with minimal initial response to her pain.however , later , there was some improvement in her pain. thepatient is to follow at the pain clinic in two weeks , as furtherappointments in the follow up section for a possible repeatepidural injection. in addition , she is to follow up with dr.farella within four weeks of the orthopedics surgery service forreevaluation for the orthopedics surgery. in addition , shereceived aggressive physical therapy , which slowly enabled her toimprove her range of movement in her lower extremities. she doeshave chronic and stable left lower extremity immobility.however , she is able to move her right leg somewhat and this hasimproved slowly over time with aggressive pt. the patient hasvery agreeable of recent days to physical therapy and is expectedto continue to improve with continued aggressive physicaltherapy. this should be the mainstay of her treatment inaddition to her pain control with her medications. she should bepremedicated with dilaudid or any pain control medications priorto any physical therapy session.2. cardiovascular: the patient had stable cardiovascularparameters during her admission and did not require anysignificant changes in her outpatient medications. medicationsare as listed in the discharge medications.3. endocrine: she has severe diabetes mellitus and insulinresistence. her nph was titrated due to episodes of asymptomatichypoglycemia to the range of 45 to 55 in the fasting morningglucoses of normal need. on discharge , the patient wasmaintained on nph insulin b.i.d. as well as sliding scale ofregular insulin. he also had a history of hypothyroidism and hersynthroid was continued. she had a history of renalinsufficiency and received a chronic low dose of prednisone. shedid not have any issues while she was in the hospital.4. rheumatology: the patient has rheumatoid arthritis. herprednisone was decreased in duration of her stay from prednisone20 mg p.o. q.a.m. to 10 mg p.o. q.a.m. she also is on as anoutpatient on her home dose of methotrexate 20 mg p.o. q. week ,which was held during her hospitalization due to her acuteissues. however , the methotrexate , which was prescribed by heroutpatient rheumatology , should be restarted as an outpatient assoon as possible. she takes 20 mg p.o. q. week.5. renal: initially , the patient had a mild increase in hercreatinine on presentation , but this improved to the normal rangewith gentle hydration.6. infectious disease: the patient had a fever on 2/21/04 to101 and on 9/5/05 to 101 degrees fahrenheit. cultures werenegative. there were white blood cells in her urine and she wasempirically given levofloxacin. she did have cough and sputum ,and she was found to have mrsa in her sputum and was known to becolonized at this point , and was placed on precautions. however ,her chest x-ray was clear. she did not have a clinicalpneumonia. her lower extremity appeared red and woody and therewas question of cellulitis , and she received 10 days of p.o.keflex , although it was unlikely she had two cellulitis.7. pulmonary: she likely has obstructive sleep apnea with amild decrease in o2 saturations at night. however , this wasnever clinically significant. her body habitus and symptoms wereconsistent with obstructive sleep apnea. chest x-rays were alsotaken during her course and were unchanged from her prior.although , she has had a history of being fitted for a c-pap mask ,she refused to use this.8. hematology: she was diagnosed with a dvt in her right leg byultrasound on 9/5/05 , and was started on a heparin drip , whichwas bridged to warfarin with therapeutic inr during the rest ofher stay. the plan is for her to continue six months ofanticoagulation , then reevaluation by her outpatient primary carephysician. her current dose of coumadin is 6 mg p.o. q.h.s. andthis should be checked one week after discharge from the hospitalin order to ensure a goal inr of 2 to 3. until than she will bemaintained on lovenox 40 mg subu q.d. in the hospital , and thiscan be continued as needed as an outpatient.9. physical therapy: as per above , the patient is engaged inphysical therapy and showed improvement over time.10. gi: the patient has intermittent constipation to her painmedications and has poor p.o. intake in general , however , thisimproved over the course of admission. she requires anaggressive bowel regimen to keep her regular bowel movements andshe will be often resonant to have a bowel movement due to thefeeling of vertigo during the bowel movements. this , however ,improved during time. she should be encouraged to allow herselfto have bowel movement in the rest room if she is able. the goalwill be for her to be able to sit on a toilet potty at thebedside.11. fluids , electrolytes , and nutrition: the patient hadintermittent , non-clinically significant hyperkalemia , whichinitially was corrected with kayexalate and bowel movements.12. psychiatric: the patient had intermittent vocalization ofnot caring if she lived or died because she had lived her lifeand she was in pain. she was seen by the psychiatry multipletimes. she did not think that she was suicidal and only needemotional support to which she responded well. at the time ofdischarge , she was euthymic and hopeful and was eager to continueto improve her quality of life with aggressive physical therapyand pain control. she was looking forward to continuing her paincontrol management follow up visit with pain service.13. the patient has declared herself to be dnr/dni.to-do plan , follow-up plan:1. aggressive physical therapy and pain control , as directed bythe pain clinic and her primary care physician.2. after her discharge from rehabilitation , she should follow upwith her rheumatologist dr. boughamer , pain clinic , dr. cills ,which is her primary care physician in orthopedics.3. she is also noted to be mrsa colonized and should be onappropriate precautions. she should continue her coumadin forsix months for her deep vein thrombosis until otherwise directedby the physician. the pain clinic will consider additionaltherapy for pain including epidural repeat as an outpatient. thepatient should restart her methotrexate as an outpatient.follow-up appointments:at this time , she has an appointment with dr. boore at thenardon hospital pain clinic at mont ox delp , phone number132-254-3418 on 0/8/05 at 2:30 p.m. she also has anappointment with dr. christofferse , orthopedic surgery at the middrise et brynta hospital orthopedic service on the jo renford puglenda li sabuffta at park health , phone number897-572-6836 on 3/23/05 at 10:30 a.m. she should have her inrdrawn in one week after discharge and follow up inr is to bedrawn every seven days until therapeutic. the inr should befollowed by her rehabilitation/nursing facility.discharge medications:albuterol nebulizer 1.25 mg nebulizer q.4h. p.r.n. wheezing ,elavil 75 mg p.o. q.h.s. , atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.d. , bisacodyl 10mg p.o. q.d. , folic acid 1 mg p.o. q.d. , lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d. ,dilaudid 2 mg to 4 mg p.o. q.3h. p.r.n. pain , insulin nph 30units subcu q.p.m. , insulin nph human 54 units subcu q.a.m. ,regular insulin sliding scale , synthroid 125 mcg p.o. q.d. ,lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d. , milk of magnesia 30 ml p.o. q.d.p.r.n. constipation , prednisone 10 mg p.o. q.a.m. , sudafed 30 mgp.o. q.6h. p.r.n. , nasal congestion , senna tablets two tabs p.o.b.i.d. , coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.p.m. , no high vitamin k containingfoods , imdur 30 mg p.o. q.d. sustained release , lipitor 80 mgp.o. q.d. , fentanyl patch 75 mcg per hour transdermally q.72h. ,neurontin 600 mg p.o. q.i.d. , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , dulcolox10 mg 20 mg pr q.d. p.r.n. constipation , lactulose 15 ml and 30ml p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. constipation , titrate to one to two bowelmovements per day.escription document: 5-1387730 emssten teldictated by: mingle , donattending: hanle , alvarodictation id 3575691d: 8/5/05t: 8/5/05[report_end]