337483886ctmc5910004821978103/30/1993 12:00:00 amdischarge summarysigneddisadmission date :03/30/1993report status :signeddischarge date :04/10/1993principal diagnosis :1. pneumonia .secondary diagnoses :2. congestive heart failure .3. hypertension .4. diabetes mellitus .5. rule out myocardial infarction .6. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease .7. benign prostatic hypertrophy .history of present illness :this is a 77 year old man with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , dysproteinemia , question of multiple myeloma , hypertension , mitral regurgitation , who presented with a one week history of malaise with cough productive of rust-colored sputum and fever .five days before admission , he noted increased shortness of breath and productive cough .he reported fevers , sweats , chills .temperature was as high as 103 .he also reported a heaviness across his entire chest and &quot; hard to breath &quot; until two days before admission .at that time , his shortness of breath worsened and his sputum became rusty-colored .he was seen at vassdiysey medical center one day before admission and was diagnosed with pneumonia and sent home with biaxin .he had taken two doses of biaxin and came to the emergency room by ambulance when his symptoms had not improved .he reported dyspnea on exertion at 20 yards at baseline with wheezing .he also reported two pillow orthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea .he denied peripheral edema .he has bilateral calf claudication after walking two blocks .he has a known tuberculosis and asbestosis exposure .his last negative ppd was greater than one year ago .past medical history :significant for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , hypertension , mitral regurgitation , peripheral vascular disease with carotid stenosis , diabetes mellitus , hiatal hernia , peptic ulcer disease , benign prostatic hypertrophy , dysproteinemia , status post bone marrow biopsy in 11/92 , glaucoma , status post appendectomy .medications on admission :at the time of admission , the patient was on chlorpropamide 250 mg b.i.d. , cimetidine 400 mg b.i.d. , isosorbide 20 mg t.i.d. , aspirin 325 mg q.d. , nifedipine xl 60 mg q.d. , betoptic , metamucil b.i.d. , biaxin 500 mg b.i.d. for two doses , tylenol , prazosin 1 mg q.d.he denied any known drug allergies .social history :he is married with five children and lives in ertla with his wife .he is a retired electronics worker at the pkwy , pidsnews , alaska 77015 .habits :he has a greater than 100 pack year smoking history and quit 9 to 10 years ago .he denied use of alcohol for 8 to 9 years .family history :significant for rheumatic heart disease , prostate cancer , lung cancer .physical examination :he was an older man in slight distress with chills .vital signs :blood pressure 150/70 .heart rate 86 .temperature 98 .oxygen saturation 89% on room air .heent was significant for mild erythema of the oropharynx without exudate .neck was supple with full range of motion without lymphadenopathy or jugular venous distention .lungs revealed rales at the bases bilaterally with egophony at the left axilla .cardiac examination revealed tachycardia with regular rate and rhythm with a iii / vi holosystolic murmur which radiated to the carotids and a iii / vi diastolic murmur .abdomen was soft , non-tender , distended with active bowel sounds .there was no splenomegaly .the liver edge was palpable 8 cm below the right costal margin .there were no masses .rectal examination revealed trace edema bilaterally to the mid shins without clubbing , cyanosis .peripheral pulses were 2+ .neurological examination was nonfocal with stocking gloves sensory deficit .reflexes were 1+ bilaterally with downgoing toes .laboratory data :laboratory on admission included a sodium of 131 , potassium of 3.9 , chloride 98 , bicarbonate 24 , bun 11 , creatinine 0.9 , glucose 153 , ldh 141 , normal liver function test .total protein 8.1 .albumin 2.8 .calcium 7.4 .cholesterol 114 .triglycerides 63 .white blood count was 8.6 with hematocrit of 33.6 , platelets 141,000 with 76% polys , 8% bands , 7% lymphocytes , 7% monocytes .an mcv was 90 .an arterial blood gas on 2 liters of oxygen revealed ph 7.42 , pco2 36 , po2 of 57 with an oxygen saturation of 90% .hospital course :the patient was started on ceftriaxone .he continued to feel very weak with increased shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion .he was started on solu-medrol on the second hospital day .his respiratory status continued to deteriorate after his solu-medrol was discontinued and he was switched to prednisone .on the evening of the fourth hospital day , he had an episode of extreme respiratory distress that required 100% face mask .a chest x-ray showed pulmonary edema with questions about worsening pneumonia as well .he ruled out for myocardial infarction .an echocardiogram revealed a mildly thickened and calcified aortic valve with increased strength valvular velocity , mild aortic valve stenosis , mild concentric left ventricular hypertrophy with normal systolic function and an ejection fraction of 65% and normal systolic left ventricular function .there were no regional wall motion abnormalities .after talking with the patient &apos;s hematologist , it was found that his bone marrow biopsy had been suggestive of multiple myeloma .both serum and urine protein electrophoresis revealed biclonal gammopathy with m-spikes noted in the beta and gamma regions .he underwent a skeletal series which showed suspicious myelomatous lesions in the scapula and proximal humeri bilaterally .there was extensive degenerative disk disease with multiple vacuum phenomenon throughout the lumbosacral spine .there was also facet osteoarthritis at l4 to l5 and l5 to s1 .sputum cytology has been sent and one specimen came back with cells which were suspicious for malignancy .the patient was seen by the pulmonary service to help with further evaluation of his abnormal sputum cytology .sputum specimens were negative for acid fast bacilli and his ppd was negative .he had some renal insufficiency which was felt to be secondary to dehydration with decreased intravascular volume despite peripheral edema .he was diuresed with lasix .his ceftriaxone was eventually discontinued and his steroids were tapered and he was switched to augmentin for ten days .disposition :condition on discharge :he was discharged home in stable condition .follow-up care :he was instructed to follow-up with his outpatient physician , dr. walking , at the chorlasonmor normooreanks tioutsocin general hospital at uingno dar as well as his vlh hematologist .he was also instructed to follow-up with the urology clinic at retelk county medical center in one to two weeks for further evaluation of his benign prostatic hypertrophy .he was scheduled to come back as an outpatient for bronchoscopy to be arranged by the pulmonary service .medications on discharge :at the time of discharge , the patient was on albuterol inhaler 2 puffs q.i.d. , atrovent 2 puffs q.i.d. , nifedipine xl 60 mg q.d. , axid 150 mg b.i.d. , metamucil 1 pkg q.d. , isordil 20 mg t.i.d. , lasix 40 mg q.d. , prazosin 1 mg q.d. , chlorpropamide 250 mg b.i.d. , augmentin 500 mg t.i.d. , prednisone taper 10 mg x one day , then 5 mg x two days , then discontinue , betoptic eye drops 0.5% one drop b.i.d. , artificial tears 1 drop q.i.d.dicatated by :ca parkinson , m.d. qc84attending :lyna walking , m.d. fs14 bq197/7410batch :8006index no. amhs9w51lod :08/01/93t :08/05/93