359674468 | svh | 81144666 | | 680976 | 10/17/1997 12:00:00 am | avascular necrosis rt. hip | signed | dis | admission date: 6/16/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/1/1997final diagnosis: ( 1 ) osteonecrosis of right hip( 2 ) paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardiaprocedure: right total hip replacementhistory of present illness: the patient is a 73 year old femalewho developed new onset of right sidedhip pain approximately four months ago. she is now severelylimited in her ambulation , as well as activities of daily living ,secondary to her right hip pain. on radiographs she wasdemonstrated to have osteonecrosis of the right hip. there is nohistory of steroid or steroid boluses or alcohol use.past medical history: degenerative joint disease bilateral hands.past surgical history: status post varicose vein stripping andbilateral cataract surgery.medications: captopril 25 mg b.i.d. , hydrochlorothiazide 50 mgq.d. , voltaren 75 mg b.i.d. , cimetidine 300 mg p.o.b.i.d. , permatol 2.5 mg b.i.d. , and levoxil 0.125 mg p.o. q.d.allergies: no known drug allergies.physical examination: the patient is an obese female with anantalgic gait on the right. nolymphadenopathy. heent: benign. she has dentures. lungs clearto auscultation bilaterally. heart: regular rate and rhythm.infrequent ectopic beats. abdomen: soft , nontender , nondistended.extremities: the right lower extremity sensation and motor areintact. she has a 30 degree straight leg raise , 90 degrees offlexion , 10 degrees of internal rotation , 30 degrees of externalrotation , and 2+ dorsalis pedis pulse.laboratory data: x-rays demonstrated collapse of the right femoralhead consistent with osteonecrosis on the right.an old mri scan also shows these osteonecrotic changes in the rightfemoral head.hospital course: the patient was taken to the operating room on10/16/97 .  she underwent a right total hipreplacement. the details of this procedure can be seen in theoperative note. postoperatively the patient was maintained oncoumadin for deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis. she had a pca forpain control and this was quite adequate. she received one unit ofautologous blood for a postoperative hematocrit of 29 onpostoperative day #1. she did not require any further transfusionsand the last hematocrit prior to discharge was 35.4.postoperatively the patient developed numerous paroxysmal episodesof supraventricular tachycardia. a medicine consult was obtainedand it was recommended that she be placed on verapamil 80 mg t.i.d.this appeared to work at first; however , it was unable to controlher tachycardia , particularly with any activity. the patient wasthen placed on lopressor 25 mg b.i.d. and the verapamil wasdiscontinued. the patient did quite well with this and herparoxysmal supraventricular tachycardia resolved. she was able toprogress with physical therapy without any episodes of increase inheart rate. the patient was ruled out for a myocardial infarctionand her ck and mb remained negative. her hemovac was removed onpostoperative day #1. she had her wound inspected on postoperativeday #2 and thereafter her incision remained clean , dry , and intactwithout any evidence of erythema or drainage. as mentionedpreviously the patient was maintained on coumadin for deep venousthrombosis prophylaxis. she worked with physical therapy on adaily basis and progressed well once her heart rate was undercontrol.disposition: condition on discharge: the patient was tolerating aregular diet. she was working daily with physicaltherapy and progressing well. she had resolution of her paroxysmalsupraventricular tachycardia with heart rate down into the 80s and90s on lopressor 25 mg b.i.d. she had a stable hematocrit andremained on coumadin for deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis. herincision appeared clean , dry , and intact without any evidence ofinfection. she had lower extremity non-invasive tests , as well asa hip film prior to discharge. she had no evidence of deep venousthrombosis on her lower extremity non-invasive tests. the patientwill be discharged to rehabilitation. followup: the patient willfollow-up with dr. locke in six weeks. she is to cal for anappointment. she will remain on coumadin for deep venousthrombosis prophylaxis for a period of six weeks. she shouldremain on her lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. and , if room permits , hercaptopril can be discontinued and lopressor used as her sole agentfor heart rate and blood pressure control. discharge medications:captopril 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. q.d. , levoxil 100 mcg p.o. q.d. ,ativan 0.5 mg p.o. q6h p.r.n. , lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,multivitamin 1 p.o. q.d. , nitroglycerin sublingual p.r.n. chestpain , percocet 1 to 2 p.o. q4h p.r.n. , coumadin to be dosed dailyto keep pt and inr in therapeutic range with inr of between 1.5 to2. she should remain on coumadin for a period of six weeks.cimetidine 300 mg p.o. b.i.d.dictated by: claude mcraven , m.d. gp3attending: emil f. puchalla , m.d. ot85  us789/1073batch: 5434 index no. pnvz3499mg d: 5/5/97t: 5/5/97