397829674fih72035045023674000233/30/1998 12:00:00 amsevere aortic stenosis .unsigneddisreport status :unsigneddischarge summary name :mshierb , nyjo iunit number :213-49-59admission date :03/30/1998discharge date :04/01/1998principal diagnosis :severe aortic stenosis .associated diagnosis :larynx carcinoma .special procedures and operations :1 ) percutaneous aortic balloon valvuloplasty .doctor &apos;s discharge orders :1 ) salagaan 5 mg. po q.i.d.2 ) ambien 5 mg. po q.h.s.history of present illness :mrs. mshierb is a 73-year-old lady who is under the care of dr. ca shuff and dr. ill kihdaiz with a diagnosis of critical aortic stenosis .she sustained an acute myocardial infarction at age 32 .at that time she was discovered to have a heart murmur .she did well until november of this year when she developed new onset of chest pain and lightheadedness .she underwent cardiac catheterization which demonstrated no significant coronary artery disease , critical aortic stenosis with a calculated aortic valve area of 0.7 cm. squared .she had normal left ventricular systolic function with an ejection fraction of 62 percent .simultaneously she was diagnosed with having an invasive epiglottis squamous cell carcinoma .she was treated with both radiotherapy and chemotherapy with good response .however she had area of cancer which will required surgical resection .thus she was referred to us in order to undergo aortic balloon valvuloplasty as a bridge to her larynx surgery .allergies :she was diagnosed in the past of allergy to iodine dye .family history :she has positive history of coronary artery disease .she denies a history of diabetes mellitus , hypertension .she has an elevated cholesterol controlled with zocor .social history :she is a former smoker of one pack per day of cigarettes for 63 years .physical examination :revealed a pleasant lady in no acute distress .her blood pressure was 120/60 mm. hg .her pulse was regular at 80 beats per minute .the jugular venous pressure was normal .the carotids have delayed upstrokes .the jugular venous pressure was normal .the chest was clear .cardiac examination :revealed an apical impulse in fifth left intercostal space in the mid clavicular line .the first sound was normal .the second sound was single .she has a 3/6 systolic ejection murmur at the upper right sternal border radiating to the neck , left sternal border and the apex .she has an s4 at the apex .examination of the abdomen was benign .she has a g tube in place .examination of the extremities showed no edema .she had good pulses bilaterally .laboratory data :electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm , left ventricular hypertrophy , with a strain pattern .hospital course and treatment :the patient was seen by the allergy clinic .it was found likely that she has iodine contrast allergy .however she was pre-medicated with prednisone and benadryl .the patient underwent successfully percutaneous aortic balloon valvuloplasty using a 20 mm. balloon catheter .with balloon valvuloplasty there was a decrease of her aortic gradient from 17 to 35 mm. hg. and an increase of her cardiac output from 4.8 to 5.0 liters per minute .the patient tolerated the procedure well .she required two units of blood transfusion the day following the procedure because of a low hematocrit .the patient is discharged stable .follow up :she will be followed up by her primary care physician dr. ca shuff .a follow up echocardiogram will be performed as an outpatient .renlan n. dye , m.d.tr :rjbdd :04/01/1998td :04/01/1998 11:14 acc :renlan n dye , m.d. ca dye , m.d. medical records stat