admission date :2016-03-31discharge date :2016-04-01service :medicinehistory of present illness :50 yo male , h/o cad s/p stent to lad in 2011 , hypercholesterolemia , dm , cocaine abuse , presenting with chest pain .he states he had onset of this pain today ; described as anterior chest pain with radiation to right shoulder , 09-26 , was increasing over the course of 45 minutes to 1 hour ( occurred after arrested ).he states that he also felt sob and diaphoretic but denies n/v/palpitations .he reports that the pain was increasing in intensity .he was brought to providence behavioral health hospital where he was found to have positive urine cocaine , ekg with new 2-7392 w. second cr. elevations in the anterior leads ( v2-5 ) and some st depressions in ii , iii , avf .he was given lopressor 5 mg x 2 ( 3rd dose given by medflight , 5 mg morphine , ativan , nitro gtt , heparin , and integrillin .pain was 12-28 at time of transfer .in the cath lab , he was found to have hazy plaque in lad ( prior stent ) , 80% hazy plaque in circumflex , and a totally occluded plb ( with collaterals ) .1 cypher stent was place in the lad while 2 were placed in lcx .right system was not intervened upon , for the plb was unable to be crossed by wire .he was transferred to the ccu for observation .brief hospital course :1. cad : presented with anginal symptoms and ekg changes ( stemi ) , with cardiac catheterization revealing lesions in lad , lcx , and plb .unclear if hazy lesions significant or if this was cocaine induced vasospasm .lad and lcx were stented , but plb could not be crossed by guidewire ( were collaterals ) .- continue asa , statin , plavix ; will hold bb given recent cocaine use ( ? can consider labetalol if necessary ) , integrillin for 18 hours- ck negative .tn wnl .- post cath check normal2. chf : ef 25% on echo , states he takes lasix at home- started lisinopril .- consider repeat echo in 1 month and quincy medical center - v/icd per discretion of primary cardiologist .- kept euvolemic and monitored for signs of overload- low na diet with 1 liter fluid restriction- may need to diurese based on clinical status , swan numbers3. rhythm : no ectopy post cath mi4. dm : on metformin at home , will hold given cath / dye adn cover with ssi5. cocaine use : last use this morning , no bb given this ; considered using ccb / phentolamine if chest pain recurs .-- will discuss beta-blocker risks and benefits with primary cardiologist-- pt advised of medical risks of using cocaine6. etoh use : unclear how much , monitor on ciwa for signs of withdrawal , ativan prn-- ciwas were 0 throughout admission7. hyperlipidemia : on lipitor 80 .ldl 79 , hdl 518. social : in police custody , with 24 hr guard , handcuffed to bed9. fen : cardiac diet , watch for aspiration given somnolent status at this time , ck and replete mg/k/ca aggressively10. code : full11. dispo : back to prison; ? extradition to hawaii