record #80620229036309 | tnh | 01171487 | | 0513272 | 2/28/2004 12:00:00 am | severe cardiomyopathy , chest pain , postive thallium stress test | signed | dis | admission date: 9/6/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 7/1/2004attending: morris vallot mddischarge diagnoses:anemia , gi bleed and chf exacerbation.history of present illness:this patient is a 64-year-old gentleman with multiple pastcardiovascular medical issues including hypertension , diabetes ,hypercholesterolemia , nonobstructive cad on prior catheterizationof 1993 and idiopathic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fractionreported at baseline from the burgthan hospital to be45% , prior echocardiogram in montsair community hospital from1994 reported at 25 to 30% , question alcoholic cardiomyopathy ,atrial fibrillation. he is status post right mca cva while oncoumadin for atrial fibrillation and peripheral vascular disease ,history of gi bleed who presented with increased shortness ofbreath and cough x several weeks. he noted initial shortness ofbreath and nonproductive cough in the end of 6/4 with aquestion infiltrate on chest film at that time and the patientwas treated with a 10-day course of antibiotics of unknowncontent question levofloxacin with no improvement. since late6/4 , the patient reports progressive shortness of breath ,dyspnea on exertion particularly with ambulation of steps andwhen lying down. additionally , the patient reports a vague bandlike pain discomfort over left anterior chest particularlyassociated with ambulation of steps and when lying supine. chestpain is associated with shortness of breath , but denieslightheadedness , diaphoresis or recent nausea and vomiting.symptoms of chest pain and shortness of breath are notably worseover the last one to two weeks through the patient reportsresolution over the last 24 hours with question of a newmedication that he is unable recall. he denies palpitation orraising heart rate. he does report orthopnea , denies pnd , butdoes report intermittent lower extremity swelling. he denieshematochezia , bright red blood per rectum , hematemesis withquestion of melanotic stools over the last month. the patientalso with a history of prior gi bleed while in lan , west virginia 39586 severalyears prior for which he was transfused 4 units of packed redblood cells. egd colonoscopy at that time revealed both upperand lower gi lesions including several small avm anddiverticulosis. additionally , upper gi endoscopy performed atthat time revealed duodenitis.the patient was seen in a pleaermount medical center todayreportedly in atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter. he hadpreviously been reported to be in this abnormal rhtyhm thatconverted to normal sinus rhythm while on amiodarone. he wasnoted to have rapid ventricular response in 120s. he hadappeared pale. hematocrit obtained at that time reportedly 21.4and the patient was admitted to the nipaul ingways community hospitalfor further evaluation.review of systems:of note , review of systems is positive for recent chills , nofevers , reports intermittent productive cough and weakness andfatigue. no weight loss over the last six months.past medical history:as given , hypertension , diabetes , hypercholesterolemia ,nonobstructive cad on prior catheterization in 1993 , idcm with efof 30 to 45% , question alcoholic cardiomyopathy , atrialfibrillation on coumadin , right mca cva in 1999 , pvd , pepticulcer disease , history of gi bleed with duodenitis ,diverticulitis and avm and right hand partial hemiparesis anddepression.medications on admission:1. amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d.2. lasix 80 mg p.o. q.d.3. digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q.d.4. niacin 750 mg p.o. b.i.d.5. amitriptyline 50 mg p.o. q.day.6. folate b6.7. prilosec 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.8. avandia 4 mg p.o. b.i.d.9. valsartan 160 mg p.o. q.day.10. nifedipine 90 mg p.o. q.day.11. hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. q.d.12. bisoprolol 5 mg p.o. q.d.13. glucophage 500 mg b.i.d.14. gemfibrozil 600 mg p.o. q.day.15. zoloft 50 mg p.o. q.d.16. ambien 10 mg q.h.s.17. coumadin as needed.18. lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q.d.allergies:reported isosorbide resulting in headache , amlodipine lowerextremity edema , lopressor erectile dysfunction and viagra , whichreportedly does not work for the patient.social history:the patient has a 50-pack-year smoking history , continues tosmoke several cigarettes a day. past alcohol abuse though thepatient reports no alcohol in the last 20 years. the patientcurrently lives with his girlfriend of 45 years and is local too lasmerflinteans louisfamily history:family history is noncontributory. no history of a suddencardiac death.physical examination:vital signs on admission include a temperature of 98 , heart rateof 112 , blood pressure 168/90 , respiratory rate 20 93% on roomair. he was in no acute distress though the patient was seen tobe in shortness of breath when lying at 20 to 30 degrees. jvp onadmission 12 to 15 cm of water , difficult to assess givenhabitus. the patient additionally with bibasilar rales ,one-third to one-half up with poor air movement. no egophony orconsolidation was appreciated. abdominal exam was unremarkable.lower extremities were warm and well perfused. he was able tomove all extremities , 4/5 strength in his right hand. he hadpositive peripheral pulses and 1+ lower extremity edema , leftgreater than right to mid calf.laboratory data:laboratory values on admission are significant for creatinine of1.8 of unknown baseline and glucose of 192. lfts were withinnormal limit. white count of 8.7 , hematocrit of 21.4 , down frombaseline of 30 to 35 and platelets of 351 , 000. mcv on hematocritwas 84.ekg on admission showed irregularly regular rhythm at 120 likelyatrial fibrillation versus atrial flutter with variable block , stsegment depression laterally in v5 through v6 , question demandischemia versus digoxin effect , left bundle branch block which isreportedly the patient's baseline. chest film with vascularprominence at the hilum bilaterally , question mass infiltrateover left lower lobe with no overt effusions.assessment:the patient is a 64-year-old gentleman with extensive pastcardiac and otherwise medical history presenting to the mahunt medical center with chf exacerbation , anemia with questiongi bleed with hematocrit in the 20s and questioncommunity-acquired pneumonia.hospital course by systems:1. cardiovascular: the patient with no evidence of acutecoronary syndrome. on admission , the patient was noted to be ina rapid ventricular response at 120 and with chf exacerbation.the patient initially with complaint of chest pressure , which wasconcerning for demand ischemia in the setting significant anemiawith increased heart rate and known ventricular dysfunction.cardiac enzymes were drawn and serially were elevated with a peaktroponin i of 4. subsequent serial cardiac enzymes resolved tobaseline values. the patient was initially started on heparin ivdrip for concern for unstable plaque , but following consultationwith dr. slaney in cardiology , it was recommended anticoagulationbe stopped secondary to recent gi bleed and low concern for acutecoronary syndrome versus demand ischemia. additionally , thepatient was rate controlled with iv following p.o. lopressor ,digoxin and amiodarone. additionally , the patient's aceinhibitor was continued and titrated up to lisinopril 40. thepatient was initially diuresed given significant volume overloadwith iv lasix with diuresis of 4 to 8 liters over the hospitalcourse. echocardiogram obtained during decompensated episoderevealed ef of 25 to 30% with global hypokinesis and septalakinesis , was significantly altered from prior echocardiogram of2/20/03 obtained at the wellcamp university of medical center which hadrevealed an ef of 40 to 45% with mild global hk. however , ofnote , this echocardiogram was similar to prior echocardiogram inalehealtdana bafound hospital system from 1994 with no additionalwall motion abnormalities. the patient's cardiovascular issuesfelt to stem secondary to anemia in the setting of increasedventricular response and tachycardia , which led to demandischemia and subsequent troponin leak causing decompensated chf.the patient's symptomatology resolved with proper rate controland resuscitation with iv fluids and blood. the patient's heartrate was well controlled in the 60s to 70s and following ivdiuresis , the patient's chf symptomatology resolved. at the timeof discharge , the patient was ambulating without difficulty withno oxygen requirement. the patient was transitioned to all p.o.regimen.2. heme: the patient with recent gi bleed with known both upperand lower gi lesions including avm and diverticulosis for whichthe patient has been previously treated. the patient'shematocrit on admission 21.4. the patient received 4 units ofpacked red blood cells to stable hematocrit of 29 to 30 x 72hours. in addition , the patient was never hemodynamicallyunstable during admission. gi bleed felt to be a precipitatingetiology. the patient was seen by the gi service , wasrecommended further outpatient evaluation and upper and lower giendoscopy evaluation as required. the patient to follow up withdr. rosendo in the erpin medical center and outpatient egdand colonoscopy to be scheduled for the next week or two tofurther evaluate. at the time of discharge , the patient'shematocrit stable at 29 , no evidence of active gi bleed present.additionally , the patient initially held on coumadin givingconcern for ongoing gi bleed and following stable transfusion ,the patient's coumadin was restarted at initially 5 and thenlater 3 mg p.o. q.h.s. with inr goal of 2.8. to be furtherevaluated as outpatient and inr to be checked on 2/15/04 in dr.paider office and titration of coumadin as required.3. gi: as mentioned prior , the patient with gi bleed , thoughtto be precipitating etiology of the patient's currenthospitalization. the patient maintained on iv protonix b.i.d.and transitioned to p.o. prilosec 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. asmentioned , prior to gi consult , the patient will receive theoutpatient evaluation with egd and colonoscopy as required forfurther management.4. pulmonary: the patient with history of productive cough ,fevers , chills. on admission , previously treated with course ofantibiotics , presumably levaquin for presumed community-acquiredpneumonia giving ongoing symptomatology , the patient treatedinitially with iv antibiotics including ceftriaxone andazithromycin transitioned to cefpodoxime and azithromycin. thepatient to complete full 10-day course of antibiotics forpresumed community-acquired pneumonia. at the time of discharge ,the patient afebrile , ambulating without difficulty , no dyspneaon exertion and o2 saturation 95% on room air.5. psychiatry: the patient with long tobacco history givenextensive cardiovascular status , the patient received addictionconsultation regarding tobacco cessation. followingconsultation , the patient showing good promise regarding tobaccocessation. he has expressed interest in doing so. as such , thepatient's antianxiety and depression medications have beenaltered. the patient to decrease zoloft to 25 mg p.o. q.d. from50 and to continue that for seven days , following which time , heshould discontinue his zoloft. additionally , the patient startedon wellbutrin initially 150 mg p.o. q.d. x seven days , totransition up to b.i.d. as tolerated within seven days time aszoloft is discontinued , recommend further outpatient evaluationas needed. the patient with several episodes of sundowningduring his hospital course , treated with haldol with no furtherincidents.6. endocrine: the patient with known diabetes , maintained onregular insulin sliding scale with good blood sugar control. thepatient to continue on outpatient regimen of avandia andglucophage. the patient may require additional anti-glycemicmedications in future as necessary.7. renal: the patient with chronicrenal insufficiency onadmission with a creatinine of 1.8 presumed baseline. at thetime of discharge , the patient's creatinine had resolved to 1.3 ,thought to be secondary to cardiorenal syndrome in the setting ofacute chf decompensation , recommend further outpatient managementevaluation. the patient to follow up with dr. mcculler in the lumspe black healthcare on 2/15/04 at 1:00 p.m. at which time ,recommend further evaluation of hematocrit , inr , electrolyte asrequired.discharge medications:1. enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.day.2. amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.day.3. lasix 80 mg p q.day.4. digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q.day.5. niacin sr 750 mg p.o. b.i.d.6. amitriptyline 50 mg p.o. q.day.7. folate b6.8. prilosec 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. up from 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.9. avandia 4 mg p.o. b.i.d.10. hold valsartan.11. hold nifedipine.12. hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg p.o. q.d. down from 25 mg q.day.13. hold bisoprolol , instead substitute toprol xl 100 mg p.o.q.day.14. glucophage 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.15. gemfibrozil 600 mg p.o. q.day.16. zoloft 25 mg p.o. q.day x seven days after which time itshould be discontinued.17. ambien 10 mg q.h.s.18. coumadin 3 mg to be titrated outpatient.19. lisinopril 40 mg q.day.20. wellbutrin sr 150 mg q.day. x seven days after which time itshould be increased to b.i.d.21. amitriptyline 50 mg q.h.s.22. nitroglycerin p.r.n.23. k-dur 20 meq q.day.24. azithromycin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. x five days.25. cefpodoxime 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. x five days.as mentioned prior , at the time of discharge , the patientafebrile and vital signs stable. the patient ambulating withoutdifficulty and feeling at baseline. the patient's o2 saturationis greater than 95% with ambulation. the patient is to follow upwith dr. alquesta in the bridplacechael's community hospital with furtheroutpatient evaluation for gi bleed as potential source of anemiaas well as further cardiac work up including cardiaccatheterization at a later time given troponin leak in thesetting of demand ischemia. the patient was transitioned to allp.o. regimen.escription document: 8-2198587 emssten teldictated by: neller , tomattending: giessinger , corneliusdictation id 5984896d: 7/15/04t: 7/15/04[report_end]