894133108fih842989537537/44bm27901702/04/1992 12:00:00 amdischarge summaryunsigneddisreport status :unsignedadmission date :02/04/92discharge date :02/15/92history of present illness :the patient is a 68 year old female with squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue , t3 , n1 , m0 transferred from cla lip operinlafo hospital with a tracheoesophageal perforation , secondary to tracheostomy placement .planned procedure was composite resection with partial glossectomy , left mandibulectomy and left radical neck with reconstruction .in preparation for procedure tracheostomy was performed with apparent posterior tracheal aspiration .at the time of the operation , the patient had difficulty breathing and developed a distended abdomen .bilateral chest tubes were placed for pmeumothorax documented by chest x-ray .a kub revealed free intra-abdominal air .bronchoscopy revealed a 2 cm. posterior membraneous wall tracheal laceration .esophagoscopy was unremarkable .the patient was given antibiotics and transferred to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital for tracheal reconstruction and evaluation of possible esophageal injury .the injury occurred several hours prior to admission .on arrival to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital she received kefzol and flagyl .the patient was paralyzed at presentation .the patient had been hemodynamically stable during the course of all of these events .the patient was emergently taken to the operating room , ______________ of her iatrogenic tracheal and possible esophageal perforations .past medical history :significant for a silent myocardial infarction in 1979 .the patient has had no recent symptoms related to myocardial ischemia .the patient currently takes no cardiac medications .past surgical history :notable for a total abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and an operation for treatment of peptic ulcers the type of operation is unknown .medications on admission :sectral 200 mg. po q.d.allergies :the patient reports allergies to shellfish and contrast dye .physical examination :the patient was a paralyzed middle aged female .she was afebrile and vital signs were stable .the patient has a # 7 endotracheal tube in place and an open tracheostomy site .the patient had bilateral equal breath sounds .bilateral chest tubes were present with no air leak .the patient &apos;s abdomen was severely distended , no bowel sounds were present .the patient had a chest x-ray revealing bilateral chest tubes with no residual pneumothorax .the lungs were fully inflated .laboratory data :on admission were notable for a white blood count of 10.4 , hematocrit 36.4 .the patient had an arterial blood gas of 100% , fio2 254/34/7.40 .hospital course :the patient was taken to the operating room for repair of a tracheal injury and revision of her tracheostomy .she underwent flexible bronchoscopy and flexible esophagoscopy .the surgery demonstrated a 5 cm. posterior tracheal laceration , no esophageal injury was present .the patient had an uncomplicated postoperative course .the patient returned to the operating room on 02/11 for a tracheostomy tube change , a flexible bronchoscopy and the placement of a g tube .the surgery was notable for severe intra-abdominal adhesions .the posterior repair of the trachea was intact with a fibrinous exudate along the suture line .the patient tolerated the procedure well , without complications .medications on discharge :bactrim one tab per g tube , metoprolol 25 mg. per g tube b.i.d. , nystatin 5 cc. swish and spit t.i.d , heparin 5,000 units subq. q8 hours , tylenol 650 mg. per g tube or pr q4 hours prn , albuterol .2 cc. per 2 cc. normal saline nebulizers q4 hours prn .mucomist 2 ml. per 2 ml. normal saline nebulizers q4h prn .racemic epinephrine .5 cc. per 2 cc. normal saline nebulizers q4h prn , and oxycodone elixir 10 mg. per g tub q4h prn .condition on discharge :good .disposition / plan on discharge :to the valtawnprinceel community memorial hospital for treatment of her tongue cancer .toya nique , m.d.tr :ml / bmotdd :02/16/92td :02/19/92cc :