362210166 | ccgh | 31835063 | | 0764315 | 3/19/2004 12:00:00 am | coronary artery disease | signed | dis | admission date: 8/1/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/20/2004attending: donnie neisen mdadmitting diagnosis:coronary artery disease.principal discharge diagnosis:coronary artery disease.history of present illness:this is an 83-year-old male with a history of coronary arterydisease , hypertension , diabetes mellitus , and hyperlipidemia. herecently presented to clinch university medical center on 10/18/04 with loss ofconsciousness while driving a motor vehicle. he sustained aleft-sided rib fracture. he denies chest pain , shortness ofbreath that time. ct scan of the head performed and wasnegative. his ekg was consistent with a right bundle-branchblock , but no acute changes. his persantine testing wasperformed and they suspect reversible anterior wall apicalischemia. he underwent a cardiac catheterization today , whichshowed triple vessel disease. he developed complaints of chestpain post-catheterization with st depressions , which resolvedwith nitroglycerin and lopressor. he was started on heparin andnitroglycerin drip and admitted by the cardiology service. cabgwas scheduled by dr. vannorden trauma service was consulted toclear him for surgery. urology also was consulted due to recentonset of hematuria and extensive neurological history.past medical history:significant for hypertension , diabetes mellitus ,hypercholesterolemia , triple aaa , coronary artery disease , leftrib fractures , bladder carcinoma , and adrenal adenoma on ct scanof the abdomen from an outside hospital.hospital course:he was admitted , he was made ready for surgery , and was taken tothe operating room on 10/20/04 , at which time he underwent an offpump coronary artery bypass graft x2 with lima to the lad ,saphenous vein graft to the rca. his intraoperative findingsshowed that he would need a stent to his om2 at a later date. healso will need an ep study prior to discharge. he also wouldneed aspirin and plavix. he is transferred to the intensive careunit in a stable fashion. he was extubated. he was ready fortransfer to step-down unit by postoperative day #1.neurologically , he was intact. cardiovascular: he was gettinglopressor 5 mg iv q.4h. his heart rate was 80 to 90. hissystolic blood pressure was 90 to 100. respiratory: he wasextubated within five hours postoperative. he was on 4 literswith sats in the high 90s. gi: he was n.p.o. pending his speechand swallowing evaluation due to his age. renal: he wasdiuresing well. urology was following. he required bladderflushes and his urine became cloudy and the foley was to remainin. he was on aspirin and plavix was to be started. onpostoperative day #2 , his chest tubes were removed. hisepicardial pacing wires were left in and ep was evaluating himfor an aicd secondary to his preoperative syncopal episodes.cardiology was following for his need for his stent , which theyrecommended him having done as an outpatient in one month afterdischarge. the foley was still in secondary to his hematuria.on postoperative day #3 , his wires were removed. he went intoatrial fibrillation a short time later. he was titrating up onhis lopressor. he spoke with the urology , and he was cleared tohave a __________ follow up with dr. horwath in one to two weeks.on postoperative day #4 , he had an echo done , which revealed anef of 55% with trace mr and trace tr , inferior basal hypokinesis.on postoperative day #5 , his creatinine was up to 1.6. he wasoff motrin and lasix. he was decreased to his loading 20 withoutdifficulty and was sating 91% on room air with ambulation andstarted on his preoperative captopril for hypertension to 160systolically. the patient did well and he was found suitable todischarge to rehabilitation on 6/23/04.discharge medications:included tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.6h. , baby aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. ,captopril 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d. for fivedays , glipizide 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. , niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,oxycodone 5 mg to 10 mg p.o. q.4h. as needed for pain , proscar 5mg p.o. q.d. , simvastatin 40 mg p.o. q.h.s. , toprol-xl 200 mgp.o. q.d. , potassium slow release 10 meq p.o. q.d. for five days ,humalog sliding scale , flomax 0.4 mg p.o. q.d. , plavix 75 mg p.o.q.d. , nexium 20 mg p.o. q.d. , lantus 10 units subcutaneous q.h.s.diet:carbohydrate controlled diet , low-cholesterol , low saturated fat ,ada 1800 calories a day.discharge instructions:include make follow up appointments with dr. hodgens in four tosix weeks , dr. bowell from cardiology in one to two weeks , anddr. thrams his primary care physician in two to four weeks anddr. calvo from urology in one to two weeks. other instructionsincluded that the patient would need a permanent pacemakerplaced , as well as a coronary artery stent to his om. cardiologyplans to do stenting one month after surgery. eps will placepacemaker at that time.discharge condition:stable.discharge disposition:rehabilitation.other instructions:include the stent placement by cardiology with aicd permanentpacemaker placement. monitor creatinine and urine output and tofollow up with urology , local wound care , continue ambulation ,shower patient daily , keep legs elevated while seated in a chairand bed , monitor cv status and continue to monitor blood glucoselevels with a glucometer.discharge laboratory data:the patient's discharge laboratory values included sodium 134 ,potassium 4.5 , chloride 98 , co2 28 , bun 44 , creatinine 1.5 , andglucose 127. white blood cell count 8.3 , hematocrit 26.7 ,platelets were 237 , and inr was 1.1. his discharge pa andlateral revealed persistent elevation of the left lung base.escription document: 9-9841773 emssten teldictated by: fraire , emanuelattending: merideth , tyrondictation id 4284832d: 10/30/04t: 10/30/04