record #553121253394750 | r | 76252492 | | 3915170 | 0/3/2006 12:00:00 am | ? myocardial infarction | signed | dis | admission date: 1/25/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/23/2006attending: pusser , rolland m.d.chief complaint:chest and left arm pain , and left arm paresthesias.history of present illness:this is a 47-year-old female with a past medical history , whichincludes hiv positive , hepatitis c positive , seizures , andneuropathy , who presented complaining of left hand paresthesiasfollowed by left hand pain that marches proximally up her leftarm and affecting her left shoulder and chest. along with thesesymptoms , she has associated shortness of breath , palpitations ,lightheadedness , diaphoresis , and nausea. the patient notes thatthese symptoms have been occurring approximately five times perweek over the past two months. she has notified her pcp of theseevents , however , the etiology has never been identified. ofnote , the patient states that these symptoms have increased infrequency since having two syncopal events , which occurred threedays prior to admission.regarding syncope , the patient recalls her first loss ofconsciousness episode occurring three days ago in her bedroom.there were no antecedent symptoms. she came back toconsciousness while on the ground , called out for help and herdaughter came immediately. there was no witnessed seizureactivity , no postictal confusion , no tongue trauma nor was thereany incontinence. a second episode of syncope occurred two daysprior to arrival while the patient was standing in the bathroom.there was some preceding lightheadedness this time. thepost-event characteristics were the same. again , the patient wasfound by her son when she called out for help.the patient denies prior history of syncopal events , however , shedoes have a lifelong history of seizures and has not been takingher keppra for approximately a year , as her prescription has ranout and she has failed to keep follow-up appointments with herprimary neurologist , dr. loock both the patient and herdaughter note that she usually has postictal confusion and thatthese syncopal events did not fit that description. furthermore ,these episodes did not feel like her occasional hypoglycemicepisodes. unfortunately , the patient's blood sugars were notobtained during these syncopal events.of note , the patient recently started flexeril to treat chroniclow back pain.review of systems:the patient admits stable three-pillow orthopnea , but newparoxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , no lower extremity edema , weightloss or increased abdominal girth. the patient has stablefour-block ambulation limited by dyspnea. she has had notableweight loss as she has decreased in dress size from 18-14 overthe past nine months. she denies fevers or chills.past medical history:hiv positive , drug-seeking behavior , parotitis , migraineheadaches , anxiety and panic , depression , hepatitis c , seizures ,neuropathy , pancreatitis , abnormal pap smear , diabetes mellitus ,cerebral aneurysm , herpes simplex type 1 , and chronic low backpain.admission medications:flexeril 5 mg daily , clonazepam 1 mg q.i.d. , truvada one tabletdaily , norvir 1400 mg b.i.d. , glyburide 5 mg q.a.m. and 2.5 mgq.p.m. , lomotil one tablet q.i.d. p.r.n. , methadone 150 mg daily ,zofran 4 mg daily p.r.n. , percocet 325 mg/5 mg tablets one tabletq.6 h. p.r.n. , zantac 150 mg b.i.d. , zoloft 100 mg q.a.m. , andtrazodone 100 mg nightly.allergies:compazine , bactrim , didanosine , gabapentin , cephalosporins ,penicillin , clindamycin , stavudine , tylenol no.3 , levofloxacin ,clindamycin , tetanus , iv contrast , ibuprofen , abacavir andritonavir.social history:the patient is from reve abilester she is living with her daughterand son. no prior tobacco or smoking history. she has a priorhistory of drinking alcohol and iv drug use.family history:negative for early coronary artery disease. her father had an miat age 74. her mother had coronary artery disease at age 76.admission physical examination:temperature 97.8 , blood pressure 172/80 , heart rate 82 ,respiratory rate 20 , and saturating 100% on room air. this is amiddle-aged woman appearing older than stated age , complaining ofleft hand pain , but otherwise appears comfortable. she has adisconjugate gaze , has only light vision in her left eye.sclerae are anicteric. oropharynx is benign. she had no oralulcers or thrush. neck is supple , without cervicallymphadenopathy , no jvd , and no carotid bruits. lungs are clearto auscultation. regular rate and rhythm , s1 and s2 , no murmurs ,rubs or gallops. abdomen was obese , soft , nondistended , andnontender with questionable splenic fullness , no clubbing ,cyanosis or edema. she had a 4 x 4 ecchymosis on her leftshoulder and a 2 x 2 scab over her left elbow. the soft tissueextending from the left shoulder to left elbow was tender topalpation as was the left chest. she had decreased sensation ofbilateral lower extremities and left. aside from a disconjugategaze , cranial nerves were intact. motor exam was intact. gaitwas slightly wide-based , but sufficient without cane. negativeromberg , negative pronator drift , and no dysmetria onfinger-to-nose bilateral , and deep tendon reflexes were 2+throughout.admission laboratory values:sodium 138 , potassium 3.9 , chloride 103 , co2 28 , bun 13 ,creatinine 0.7 , glucose 179 , calcium 9.2 , magnesium 1.6 , alt 35 ,ast 34 , alkaline phosphatase 57 , ck 51 , ck-mb 1.4 , troponin lessthan assay , white count of 3.35 , hemoglobin 12.6 , hematocrit36.7 , pt 14.4 , inr 1.1 , and ptt 29.5.admission data:chest x-ray was within normal limits. ekg was normal sinusrhythm without ischemic change. cat scan of the head was withinnormal limits. left shoulder and arm plain films were negativefor fracture or dislocation.impression:this is a 47-year-old female with a history significant for hiv ,diabetes , questionable cerebral aneurysm , and seizure disorder( not taking keppra for the past year ) , who recently had twosyncopal events without prodrome and without postictal state( thus unlikely a seizure in etiology ) , who presented forevaluation of left arm paresthesias and chest pain , withassociated diaphoresis , shortness of breath and nausea , which hasbeen intermittently occurring over the past two months.during this admission , the patient had frequent recurrences ofher left arm and chest pain symptoms , which were related tosyncopal events. thus , the medical team does not think thatthese two issues are related. the patient underwent an extensivesyncopal evaluation , however , the etiology was never identified.the etiology of the patient's left arm and chest symptoms andsyndromes also was not identified during this admission , however ,the medical team suspects it may be related to a cervical spinousprocess , potentially arthritis , disc herniation or nerve rootimpingement. please see below for more details. the remainderof the dictation will be divided into system:1. cardiovascular: the patient underwent an extensivecardiovascular evaluation , all of which was negative.a. pump: given the patient's history of hiv and takingantiretroviral , there was a concern about associatedcardiomyopathy. echocardiogram that was performed was completelywithin normal limits. the patient did not exhibit signs ofparoxysmal nocturnal dyspnea or orthopnea during this admission.dyspnea on exertion could be related to decondition.b. rhythm: the patient's telemetry history on 2/23/2006 wasnotable for a nonsustained 5-beat run of wide complex tachycardiawith rates in the 150's. this was immediately followed by anonsustained 4-beat run of narrow complex tachycardia.cardiology consult was placed to review the telemetry strip andto assess for referral to ep service for potential aicd. giventhe negative echocardiogram , the card service wanted to rule outischemia-induced arrhythmia , so a mibi was performed , and thepatient was started on low-dose beta-blocker and aspirin. theadenosine mibi was within normal limits. the telemetry strip wasreviewed by the ep service and diagnosed the patient withnonsustained svt with aberrancy. the card service then advisedthat there was no need for aicd. they stated that if tolerated ,the beta-blocker could be continued and that the patient shouldbe set up as an outpatient for a loop recorder. this will becoordinated through the patient's pcp. of note , after startingmetoprolol 12.5 b.i.d. , the patient had occasional bradycardia tothe high 40's. thus , it was determined that this medicationshould be discontinued as it may be impairing the patient'sexercise tolerance.c. ischemia: coronary disease risk factors include diabetes andfamily history. she ruled out for a myocardial infarction , hadno ischemic change on her ekg , and had a negative mibi. nofurther workup for coronary artery disease was indicated. alipid panel was completely within normal limits and suggestingtreatment was not indicated.d. miscellaneous: on 8/12/2006 , the patient was evaluated forone of her left arm and chest pain events. the patient was notedto be diaphoretic and complained of nausea and shortness ofbreath. the symptoms occurred while the patient was lying inbed. upon arrival by the team , her blood pressure was 90/56 ,heart rate was 56 , she had poor pallor , was diaphoretic , anddescribed chest pain radiating up and down her arm. ekg intelemetry during the event was normal sinus rhythm with any acutest or t-wave changes. the event spontaneously resolved in lessthan 15 minutes without medical intervention.2. neuro: the patient has a history of convulsive seizures andhas been noncompliant with keppra for the past 12 months becauseshe failed to keep neuro appointment with dr. sconiers and hasbeen unable to obtain refills. per the patient , her recentsyncopal events were without prodrome and without postictalstate. thus , were unlikely prior seizures and unlikely seizurein focus. an eeg was performed during this admission anddemonstrated no definite focal or epileptiform features. kepprawas restarted at 250 mg b.i.d. with a goal to increase to 500 mgb.i.d. after 7 days and to 750 mg after another week. there wasa question of a history of cerebral aneurysm , diagnosed at anoutside facility , which was never confirmed by tonfay medical center imaging. mri of the brain and mra of the head and neckobtained this admission was negative for hemorrhage , mass , edema ,hydrocephalus , infarction , and negative for abnormal enhancement.there was no aneurysm high-flow avm or stenosis found , and mraof the neck had no significant abnormality. the patient'sneurologist , dr. klez , was aware of this admission. afollow-up appointment has been made.3. endocrine: history of diabetes type ii , hemoglobin a1c of6.1 , reflects excellent outpatient glycemic control , however , thepatient reports becoming diaphoretic with normal glycemic levelsbetween 80 and 100. given recent weight loss without glyburidedose adjustment , the medical team decreased glyburide to 2.5 mgdaily for the patient to begin upon discharge. during thisadmission , the all oral agents were held and the patient wastreated with the ryo hospital medical center insulin protocol.4. infectious disease: the patient has a history of hivpositive , cd4 count on 1/21/2006 was 217. the viral load wasless than assay. the patient continued on truvada and lexiva.the patient complained of dysuria on 2/6/2006. urinalysis wasordered , but symptoms resolved before specimen could be sent thelab.5. pain: history of chronic pain and lumbar spine herniations.the methadone dose of 155 mg was confirmed with the outpatientclinic. no additional regular narcotics were given during thisadmission.6. heme: the patient has chronic pancytopenia. she has anormocytic normochromic anemia with normal iron studies , b12 andfolate , and a low reticulocyte index consistent with anemia ofchronic disease , likely from hiv immunosuppression.7. miscellaneous: the patient was screened by the physicaltherapy service who recommended a home safety evaluation. thiswill be coordinated to the tlandgilb o visiting nurses association.given the liability and predictability of events , the teamimplemented a 24-hour urine collection to assess forpheochromocytoma. the results of the studies are pending at thetime of this discharge. the patient may have autonomicdysregulation as part of her diabetes. alternatively , themedical team speculates that the patient may have cervical spinalarthritis , lumbar herniation or nerve root impingementcontributing to these symptoms. of note , the patient states thatthese episodes had occurred more frequently inpatient and theywere at home. it was until the day of discharge that it wasnoted that the patient was not receiving her klonopin 1 mg q.i.d.as she had prior to admission. in fact , she has only receivedthree doses of klonopin over a six-day period. it is unclearwhat role anxiety is playing into these events. on the day ofdischarge , the patient stated that she was making arrangements tosee an orthopedic specialist at laly county health forevaluation of her cervical spine.final diagnoses:1. syncope , not otherwise specified.2. left arm pain/left chest pain/left arm paresthesias ( nototherwise specified ).discharge medications:ecotrin 81 mg daily , clonazepam 1 mg q.6 h. p.r.n. , imodium oneto two tablets q.i.d. p.r.n. for diarrhea , truvada one tabletp.o. daily , lexiva 1400 mg p.o. b.i.d. , glyburide 2.5 mg daily ,keppra 500 mg b.i.d. for 14 doses and then 750 mg b.i.d.indefinitely , methadone 155 mg daily , zantac 150 mg b.i.d. ,zoloft 300 mg daily , trazodone 100 mg at bedtime p.r.n. , andzofran 4 mg daily p.r.n. for nausea.medical follow up:on 2/25/2006 , the patient is scheduled to see her pcp , dr. les orosco on 7/10/2006 , she is scheduled to see her psychiatrist ,dr. damien scherzer on 9/18/2006 , she is scheduled to seeher infectious disease , dr. marion callais on 0/14/2006 , she isscheduled to see her neurologist , dr. shane bemberry inaddition , the patient is going to be followed by the na riventtortonlis jo vnawho will do a medication reconciliation and home safetyevaluation.specific instructions:1. take medications as listed , clarify discrepancies with yourpcp. this means stop taking flexeril , ____ glyburide has beenchanged to 2.5 mg , and low-dose aspirin has been started.2. if you faint again , you should return to the er forevaluation.3. if your chest pain symptoms recur and persist longer than thetypical course , call your pcp and/or return to the emergencyroom.4. make an appointment with the smill memorial hospital to evaluatethe cause of her left arm symptoms.5. check your blood sugars before meals and at bedtime , recordand bring your results to your follow-up appointment.specific instructions for the pcp:1. please arrange for a loop monitor.2. follow up on a 24-hour urine studies assessing forpheochromocytoma.3. adjust the patient's diabetes management as needed.escription document: 1-2481939 emssten teldictated by: martyn , brunoattending: toti , jeremydictation id 1865427d: 9/4/06t: 9/4/06[report_end]