995495721 pumc8102745918862189889201/24/2002 12:00:00 amdischarge summarysigneddisreport status :signeddischarge summary name :kulrinne , ryyelege nunit number :324-80-24admission date :01/24/2002discharge date :02/08/2002principal diagnosis :acute anterior myocardial infarction .associated diagnoses :1. hypertension .2. hyperlipidemia .3. pulmonary hemorrhage .4. cognitive deficit .5. coronary artery disease .6. history of basal cell carcinoma .7. urinary incontinence and urinary retention with benign prostatic hypertrophy .8. history of vertigo .principal procedure :1. coronary artery stent placement to the left anterior descending with intubation and intra-aortic balloon placement .2. bronchoscopy .3. chest ct .4. head ct .5. circumflex artery stent .medications on discharge :aspirin 325 mg po qd .plavix 75 mg po qd .lopressor 12.5 mg po bid .enalapril 2.5 mg po qd .plavix 75 mg po qd .thiamine .multivitamins .b12 .folate .seroquel 12.5 a.m. , 50 hs .haldol 5 prn .history of present illness :this 82-year-old gentleman was admitted on 01/24/02 with stuttering chest pain .mr. kulrinne has a history of cardiac risk factors , including hypertension , hyperlipidemia , obesity .he had developed intermittent chest pressure with exertion since last fall .he was placed on cardiac medications after a stress test had revealed reversible defects in the anteroseptal and apical leads .on medications , he continued to have some discomfort , although this was not quite clear from the outpatient setting .an attempt at medical management was continued .however , the patient developed crescendo pattern angina pectoris and presented on the day of admission .past medical history :as above .medications on admission :lipitor .lopressor .aspirin .imdur .nitroglycerin prn .allergies :no known drug allergies .social history :the patient lives with is wife .tobacco :history of heavy smoking in the past .physical examination on admission :blood pressure 112 , sa02 96% , afebrile .lungs clear .s1 , s2 .no significant murmurs .abdomen :obese and soft .extremities :without edema .hospital course :the patient was admitted to the floor with variable changes in his ekg .he became pain free in the emergency room and was initially admitted to evinlandcalco hospital .however , he developed recurrent chest discomfort on the floor with worsening of his anterior st segments with elevation , and he was taken to the cardiac catheterization laboratory .in the cardiac catheterization laboratory , right heart catheterization showed ra 7 , rv 36/9 , wedge 16 .he was treated with integrelin in addition to his intravenous heparin , aspirin , and nitrates .he was found to have the left anterior descending occluded proximally with right to left collaterals .the circumflex was codominant with severe 90% lesion proximally in the circumflex and 50% lesion in a large om .the right coronary artery was codominant and had an ostial stenosis in the 70% range .left ventriculography revealed an akinetic anterolateral wall .a balloon pump was placed and right heart catheterization was performed showing the above .the patient developed worsening st elevation on the monitor and the decision was made to go ahead and open the left anterior descending .the procedure was reasonably complicated in that the left anterior descending had poor re-flow and two stents needed to be placed , as there was a second lesion in the mid left anterior descending .the distal vessel was quite diseased and poor with regard to vessel quality and caliber .a good result was obtained with a stent in the proximal left anterior descending and a stent in the mid left anterior descending and the patient went to the intensive care unit on a balloon pump , intubated .his peak cpk was in the 3000 range .the patient developed hemoptysis while intubated and on integrelin and heparin .he underwent bronchoscopy , which showed no specific lesion .in addition , chest ct showed no obvious reason for his hemoptysis , with the exception of atelectasis .it was felt that perhaps the patient had atelectasis and perhaps some aspiration , which predisposed him to hemoptysis .in addition , the patient had confusion and delirium .head ct was without any obvious intracranial catastrophe .he was seen in consultation by the neurology and psychiatry services and felt to have cognitive deficits and was ultimately controlled and managed with a combination of seroquel and haldol .in addition , the patient had a sitter during parts of his hospital course to keep him oriented .the patient had a return to the cardiac catheterization lab on 2/2/02 to receive a stent to the tight circumflex .this was uneventful , without the need for intubation , etc , and the procedure went smoothly .he tolerated it well .the ostial right coronary was a relatively small vessel for the patient and was not approached this admission .the patient was transferred to evinlandcalco hospital .he had difficulties with urinary incontinence and required straight catheterization for post-void residuals up until the time of this dictation .he was still having 300 cc or so post-void remaining in his bladder .he is followed by dr. squithsherl in this regard .at the time of this dictation , the plan is for probable transfer to a rehabilitation facility for physical therapy .he has had no recurrent heart angina pectoris or heart failure .of note , cardiac echocardiogram revealed an ejection fraction in the 40% range with apical akinesis .electronically signed riethern n breun , m.d. 02/17/2002 11:29_____________________________ riethern n breun , m.d.tr :fbdd :02/06/2002td :02/06/2002 12:13 p 918862cc :riethern n breun , m.d. shasta lifre riveshew , m.d.