999765843 | whh | 05907477 | | 616071 | 1/24/1992 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 7/18/1992 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/24/1992history: the patient is a 79-year-old blackfemale with a history of diabetes ,hypertension and peripheral vascular disease who presented to thebistin wester hospital emergency room brought in by the emts forunresponsiveness at home.cardiac risk factors were positive for diabetes , hypertension ,questionable family history and question of a prior ma. she wasrelatively well with diabetes and hypertension at her baselineuntil approximately 8 of september when she had a left common femoralangioplasty at sideplea memorial hospital .in 27 of may , she had a left fem/pop for vascular insufficiency , andher hospitalization at that time was complicated by some mentalstatus changes and a fever of unknown etiology.in 7 of march , she presented to norstooktrina hop university of health with an upper respiratory infec-tion and received pneumovax. in 28 of february , she was recurrently seenin daute ontkeear medical center for coughs and colds. in 25 of october , she had a landutchess hospital admission for three days of cough , purulent sputum andshortness of breath.on admission , she was on her insulin and inhalers. she wastreated with intravenous cefotetan and iv steroids for reactiveairways disease. the patient improved slowly and steadily on ataper.on 5 of may , the patient was complaining of increasing lethargy , asick feeling , was cold and clammy and called her medical doctor.approximately 15 minutes later , the patient was noted by herfamily to be unresponsive and emts were called. the patient wasfound to be hypotensive , diahporetic and nonverbal with a heartrate in the 20s and ekg that was consistent with complete heartblock.she was intubated , treated with atropine in the field and broughtto the waltwhidverstiicsonacot medical center emergency room. in the emergencyroom , her heart rate was noted to be 20. she appeared to be insinus arrest with a ventricular escaped rhythm. an externalpacer was placed. she was paced at 80 , had an increase in herblood pressure , was given calcium and resuscitated with fluids.a transvenous pacemaker was placed and captured effectively.laboratory data: ing intubated. her bicarb was eight onadmission. bun and creatinine were 48 and 2.3. initial ck was28. she was given oriing intubated. her bicarb was eight onadmission. bun and creatinine were 48 and 2.3. initial ck was28. she was given oriing intubated. her bicarb was eight onadmission. bun and creatinine were 48 and 2.3. initial ck was28. she was given oriing intubated. her bicarb was eight onadmission. bun and creatinine were 48 and 2.3. initial ck was28. she was given originally , in the emergency room , iv insulinas well and treated with antibiotics including ceftriaxone ,vancomycin and gentamicin and transferred to the cardiac careunit because there were no nicu beds available. allergies: noknown allergies. she does not smoke or drink. she is currentlyliving with her daughter , one of 11 children. she has 66 grand-children and 30 great grandchildren. medications on admissionincluded verapamil 40 q. day; insulin 30 units nph a day;captopril 25 t.i.d.; bactrim ds one tablet p.o. b.i.d.; andventolin and atrovent inhalers.past medical history: notable for hypertension , diabetes ,multiple rotator cuff injuries in thepast , the femoral and popliteal bypass procedure as noted aboveand noted to have an increased globulin in the past.hospital course: in the unit , she had iv insulin startedfor presumed diabetic ketoacidosis. thesinus arrest was presumed to be metabolic in origin due to hersevere acidosis hyperkalemia secondary to her diabetic ketoaci-dosis. in addition , she had been on high dose verapamil withsome question of whether or not this was suppressing her sinusnode.she was maintained on iv insulin for approximately two days buthad a persistent metabolic acidosis. because of some abdominaltenderness which was hard to gauge given her decreased mentalstatus while she was intubated , she underwent an abdominal ctthat was unremarkable , although very mild pancreatitis was noted.she had a concomitant rise in her amylase and lipase to approxi-mately 270 and 1 , 290 respectively.her lfts showed a picture consistent with shock liver with hertransaminases going up to approximately 1 , 000-2 , 000 range and theldh in the 2 , 000-3 , 000 range. it resolved over time as her bloodpressure returned to normal. her antibiotics were changed toampicillin , gentamicin and flagyl for concern of an abdominalsource despite the negative ct , and her low grade fevers per-sisted for a few days but then she defervesced.on 3 of november , she was transferred to the floor after having receivedapproximately five days of intravenous insulin and a resolutionof her hyperglycemia and ketosis.her hospital course on the floor was notable for a titration ofher insulin dose. of note , her insulin dose was as high asapproximately 30-35 units of nph q. day in a setting of havingreceived steroids initially on admission and they were continued.her steroids were weaned rapidly and , once steroids were stoppedher insulin requirement decreased markedly and she was only on 20units of nph a day now.of note , she had two episodes of hypoglycemia in the morning withblood sugars in the 20-30 range , one of which was asymptomaticbut one of which was associated with some shaking that respondedpromptly to administration of juice.from an infectious disease standpoint , she had no obvious sourcefor any of her fevers , and she defervesced. there was some ques-tion of aspiration surrounding her original intubation , so shewas maintained on approximately seven days of antibiotics andthen these were stopped. she was watched , and she remainedafebrile throughout her hospitalization.one day prior to discharge , she complained of some left gum pain.exam showed a very mild swelling and some focal tenderness butwas unremarkable. because of this , she was started on peni-cillin 250 mg p.o. q.i.d. which will be continued for seven days.from a renal standpoint , her baseline creatinine was 1.3 to 1.5range and it bumped to approximately 3.0 during hospitalization.she was being discharged with her creatinine of approximately1.7. her urine output had been excellent.from a cardiovascular standpoint , within three or four days ofher admission , her sinus arrest resolved in a setting of correc-tion of her metabolic derangement. her pacemaker was removed ,and she had no further cardiac event.she was being discharged today in stable condition to the beywell hospital with the following discharge medications:nifedipine 30 mg p.o. q.i.d.; lasix 20 mg p.o. q. day; pepcid20 mg p.o. q. day; colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.; clonidine 0.1 mgp.o. b.i.d.; ecotrin 325 mg p.o. q. day; albuterol 0.5 cc and2.5 cc normal saline q. three to four hours p.r.n.; insulin nph20 units subcutaneous q.a.m.; penicillin b 250 mg p.o. q.i.d.times one week; peridex swish and swallow q.i.d.; and 5 , 000 unitsof subcutaneous heparin b.i.d. as long as she remains somewhatinactive. she takes an 1 , 800 kilocalorie ada diet and low-saltand low-cholesterol diet as well.discharge diagnosis: 1. diabetic ketoacidosis.2. sinus arrest.3. diabetes mellitus.4. hypertension.dictated by: seth ellsworth minic , m.d. co94so232/7407emory rayford lopiccalo , m.d. tk13 d: 2/23/92t: 2/23/92batch: j385 report: so879z267 t: