admission date :2013-11-21discharge date :2013-11-26date of birth :1949-07-18sex :fservice :plasticallergies :trazodone / ambien / sinequanattending : bobby z.s. ruiz , m.d.chief complaint :acquired defect from basal cell carcinoma resectionmajor surgical or invasive procedure :right nose / ala reconstruction using right cheek advancement and forehead local flaphistory of present illness :ms. marshall is a 64-year old , mentally retarded , female who presented with an aquired defect of the right nasal ala and medial cheek region after basal cell carcinoma was resected by dermatology .past medical history :mental retardationdiabetesbipolar disordersocial history :lives in a nursing home , has a brother who is the health care proxy .no tifany , etoh , or rec drug use .physical exam :on presentation , pt was afebrile with normal vital signsgen : no acute distress , able to communicate and follow ordershead and neck : 5 cm circular full thickness defect at the junction of the right ala and cheekheart : regular rate and rhythmlungs : clear to asculationabdomen : soft , non-tender , non-distendedextremities : no edema , cyanosis , full range of motionbrief hospital course :upon admission , the patient was pre-op 'd and made npo / ivf .she went to surgery the next morning and tolerated the surgery well .however , she was slow to awake from anesthesia , and was admitted to the cmed ccu observation .she was transfered to the floor post-op day 2 where she had been afebrile with normal vitals , making good urine , and tolerating a regular diet .her wound has remaind dry and closed , without evidence of infection or breakdown .she has been watched by a sitter at all times .she will be discharged today back to her nursing home in good condition , on pain meds , antibiotics , and with anticipated 1:1 watch .she will follow up with dr. karen in 1 week .stage two of her surgery will be done in 3 weeks .discharge medications :1. paroxetine hcl 10 mg tablet sig : one ( 1 ) tablet po am ().2. multivitamin capsule sig : one ( 1 ) cap po qam ( once a day ( in the morning )).3. divalproex sodium 500 mg tablet , delayed release ( e.c. ) sig : one ( 1 ) tablet , delayed release ( e.c. ) po qam ( once a day ( in the morning )).4. docusate sodium 100 mg capsule sig : one ( 1 ) capsule po bid ( 2 times a day ) as needed : constipation .disp : 30 capsule (s) refills : 0 5. triamcinolone acetonide 0.1 % cream sig : one ( 1 ) appl topical bid ( 2 times a day ).6. divalproex sodium  oral7. atorvastatin 10 mg tablet sig : one ( 1 ) tablet po hs ( at bedtime ).8. oxybutynin chloride 5 mg tablet sig : one ( 1 ) tablet po qpm ( once a day ( in the evening )).9. hydrocodone-acetaminophen 5-500 mg tablet sig : 1-2 tablets po q4h ( every 4 hours ).disp : 40 tablet (s) refills : 0 10. bacitracin-polymyxin-neosp hc ointment sig : one ( 1 ) topical three times a day .disp : 1 500 / gram  refills : 2 discharge disposition :extended caredischarge diagnosis :aquired deformity of the right ala / nose and medial cheek from basal cell carcinoma resectiondischarge condition :gooddischarge instructions :please give patient medications as prescribed and read warning labels carefully .if signs and symptoms of infection , such as fevers / chills , purulent discharge from wound / incision site , increased redness , increased pain , please call or go to the emergency room .remember to call to schedule her follow up appointment ( below ).light activities until seen in clinic .stage 2 of the surgery will be done in 3 weeks .may shower -- dab dry , do not scrub .please clean incision site with normal saline or clean water three times a day and place antibiotic ointment ( given ) on top of wound .please keep patient away from the sun .most importantly , the patient must be watch one-on-one so that she does not pick at her wound .followup instructions :please call dr.parson office for a follow up ( 989-5361 mauricio ( 540-4644nancy lois md 88-449completed by : mary lisa md 53-914 2013-11-26 @ 1134signed electronically by : dr. david randazzo on : mon 2013-12-16 7:25 am( end of report )