record #842372382610871 | chmc | 65942396 | | 0246521 | 7/15/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 2/17/2005 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: legget , basil malcom mdadmitted 2/16/05 to dr. alan smaniottoadmission chief complaint: poor p.o. intake and failure tothrive.hpi: this 77-year-old female first noted dysphagia beginning inapproximately march 2005. since then it has persisted andworsened , and she was seen by a primary care physician. initialendoscopy was performed , which was suspicious for malignancy ,however , the patient was on coumadin and no biopsy was obtainedat that time. she underwent a repeat upper endoscopy on november ,2005 at the arma healthcare health the egd revealed that ms. hinrichsenhad barrett's esophagus as well as a nodule on the distalesophagus. no evidence of gastritis. a biopsy of the nodulerevealed poorly differentiated invasive adenocarcinoma at 35 cm.it appeared to be rising in association with barrett'sesophagitis. she also has a history of ischemic myopathy with anlvef of approximately 20% and cad with a history of bypass graftin 1992 and a biventricular icd placed in march 2004. sheunderwent an endoscopy on july , 2005 , an eus revealed that shehad an intramural lesion in the distal esophagus measuring 2 cmin diameter invading into the muscularis propria , therefore shewas staged and having t3 , n0 , mx , and tumor by eus. she was seenat toards health in mid august by both dr. tyrell aningalanfrom medial oncology and dr. wahlen from radiation oncology. it wasfelt that she was a reasonable candidate for consideration ofchemoradiation. she therefore began her chemoradiation andradiotherapy , chemotherapy including taxol and cisplatin.approximately 1 week prior to admission on february , 2005 ,unfortunately , she reports over the course of the past week , shehas had increasing dysphagia to the point where she is havingtrouble swallowing liquids. she presented for her routineradiation therapy the day prior to admission , with complaints ofsevere lightheadedness and difficulty getting off the radiationtable. she was taken to the ed , where she was found to bedehydrated and weak. she had some chills , but no fever , nohemoptysis or diarrhea. she has had very poor p.o. intake andshe notes some weight loss.past medical history:1. cad , status post cabg , 5 vessel in 1995.2. chf with a biventricular pacer placed , ef of 20%.3. hypertension.4. hyperlipidemia.5. diverticulosis.6. status post appendectomy.7. status post gallbladder removal.8. a-fib on coumadin.9. esophageal cancer status post chemo on xrt.10. hypothyroidism.11. peptic ulcer disease.allergies: codeine causes gi upset , morphine and demerol causedgi upset , amoxicillin/clavulanic acid caused gi upset , azelastinecauses stinging , and amiodarone causes cold sweats.medications: her medications on admission were lopressor 50b.i.d. , diovan 80 , digoxin 0.125 mg five days a week , synthroid0.125 mg , imdur 30 daily , lasix 80 daily , prevacid 30 daily ,multivitamin , coumadin 3 mg nightly , and zocor 5 every other day.social history: the patient is married and lives with herhusband. she is a homemaker. she does not smoke. she does notdrink except for occasionally.family history: she has a father with melanoma , and a motherwith an mi at the age of 59.review of system: she had no abdominal pain , no chest pain , noshortness of breath , no headache , and no joint pain.physical exam: on admission ,vital signs: her temp was 97.4 , pulse 86 , blood pressure 87/56 ,respiratory rate 20 , saturating 98% on room air.general: she was an alert , oriented , cooperative female , who wasresting comfortably.heent: her mucous membranes were dry , oropharynx clear. pupilswere equal , round and reactive to right. extraocular motionsintact.lungs: clear to auscultation bilaterally , no crackles orwheezes.neck: there is jvp at 7 cm , low lymphadenopathy. her neck wassupple.cardiovascular: she was irregularly regular with a 2/6 systolicejection murmur loudest at the apex.abdomen: soft , nontender , nondistended , with positive bowelsounds. her extremities had trace edema with no bruising.laboratory data: her admission labs were notable for potassiumof 2.9 , bun of 37 and creatinine of 1.6. her lfts and cbc werewithin normal limits. her inr on admission was 2.7. her albuminwas 3.7 , mag 1.5. her ua was negative. her ekg showed a rightbundle branch block with a-fib , a-flutter with occasional pacedbeats from her pacer. her chest x-ray was clear.assessment: this 77-year-old female with a history of cad , chfand esophageal cancer presenting with lightheadedness , however ,having nausea and vomiting , most likely her symptoms are due todehydration. unlikely a cardiac cause given no chest pain , nopalpitation , and obviously decreased p.o.plan:1. lightheadedness: poor p.o. intake and dehydration.nutrition was consulted to evaluate regarding the possible stentin esophagus. she will be treated with gentle hydrationovernight , measure orthostatics , holding lasix.2. cardiovascular: history of chf with an ef of 20% , checkingbnp and monitor on tele for arrhythmia , continue digoxin , diovan ,lopressor , continue imdur , continue lasix while hydrating.3. esophageal cancer: got xrt. on the day of admission , shewill continue xrt.4. nausea: rx for zofran and replete potassium.5. hypothyroidism: continue synthroid.6. gerd: continue prevacid.7. a-fib: continue coumadin.8. hyperlipidemia: continue zocor.9. fen: replete electrolytes p.r.n. , diabetic diet , andmultivitamin.10. prophylaxis: subcutaneous heparin and prevacid.11. full code.brief hospital course:1. lightheadedness: it was felt that all of her lightheadednesswas most likely due to dehydration. her lightheadedness improvedwith hydration , it was most likely due to poor p.o. intake.nutrition evaluated her and suggested high calorie supplements ,however , she continued to be nauseated and unable to take goodp.o. gi was consulted regarding possible stenting of heresophagus given that she had an intra-esophageal lesion thatcould potentially be causing this nausea. she was also orderedfor a barium swallow. on the barium swallow , there was a strictstenotic lesion of the esophagus , which is not allowed any foodto pass through. an egd was performed , which showed some foodabout a tight stenosis that was unable to be passed. based uponthis it was felt that she would benefit from a g-tube.interventional radiology was consulted and placed a g-tubewithout complication. tube feeds were begun and she toleratedthem well without complication. she has been continued on tubefeeds and is currently at goal of 360 cc four times a day , with ascoop of promod , these will be continued upon discharge.2. tia/cva: on the evening of 7/28/05 , it was noted that shehad decreased ability to move the left side of her body. basedupon this , a stat ct and cta was performed. the ct showed nobleeding , and during the ct scan , she regained all function inthe left side , however , the cta did note a large friable clotwithin her right ica. based upon her high level of heart diseaseand high risk for an operative procedure , it was not felt thatshe would be a stent candidate at that time. she was continuedon lovenox therapy with coumadin with the plan to discharge heron medical management for this tia. however , on the morning of3/29/05 , she was noted to have a new left-sided facial droop.she also had some left-sided weakness. a stat ct , cta once againshowed no bleed. at this point , the clot was noted to have movedfrom the right ica into the mca , and to have dissolved somewhat.based upon this , it felt that she would have good recovery fromher stroke , and she was not a candidate for any sort ofintervention at that time. she was converted over to heparindrip with the plan to give her a heparin drip as bridging overwhile her coumadin became therapeutic. she was continued onheparin drip until her inr was therapeutic. she will bedischarged on coumadin and continued on coumadin and aspirintherapy for life.3. esophageal cancer: she was continued on xrt for the entiretime when she was in the hospital. conversations between dr.depaoli , dr. serl and the family were had and it was felt that shewas no longer a chemotherapy candidate given her poor status , interms of her other issues. she will be continued on xrt afterdischarge from the hospital.4. acute renal failure: on admission , she was noted to have anincreased creatinine; it was felt to be most likely due todehydration. however , at the time of admission , she had a bun of50% and a renal ultrasound was performed , the renal ultrasoundwas normal and showed no further defect over the course of herhospital stay. her creatinine continued trending down and was0.9 on the day prior to discharge.5. cad: she has a history of chf with an ef of 50%. she wasmonitored on tele for arrhythmia and no arrhythmia was observed.she does of note have a right bundle branch block at baseline aswell as biventricular pacer with 1 lead out of place causing awide complex rhythm. there were multiple alarms for vt , whichwere simply her baseline rhythm. in the hospital , she wascontinued on digoxin , lopressor , and imdur. her lasix wasinitially held , while she was being hydrated , however , it wasrestarted after the g-tube was placed and she was gettingsufficient feeds. she was also continued on her statin. she hadno other cardiac issues while she was in the hospital.6. nausea: she was treated with zofran for her nausea when shewas admitted and she continued to have good response to this.7. urinary tract infection: on the 13 of july she noted that she washaving increasing pain on urination and increasing burning , an uawas done and it was found to be positive for infection. aculture was performed , which showed enterobacter that waslevo-sensitive. she was started on levaquin and the foley , whichhad been placed prior was discontinued. she was continued onlevaquin for a 10-day course and this will be continued forseveral days after discharge.8. hypothyroidism: she was continued on her synthroid at herhome dosages while she was in-house.9. gerd: she was continued on prevacid while she was in-house.10. a-fib: she was continued on coumadin , although it was heldprior to her egd and g-tube placement. during the time when shewas not therapeutic on her coumadin she was treated with eitherlovenox subcu. or heparin iv drip titrated to a ptt of 60 to 80 ,therefore she was always therapeutic on her anticoagulin duringthis hospital stay.11. she was initially on a full diet , however , she was unable totake any p.o. so she was started on tube feeds , which she wasable to make her goal. nutrition was involved in her care andshe was continued on multivitamin.12. she was on lovenox or heparin drip throughout herhospitalization for dvt prophylaxis. she was also continued onprevacid.code status: full code , and remained full code throughout herhospitalization.communication: there was much communication between her familythroughout this hospitalization in terms of their wishes for hercare and for her discharge , and it was agreed that a rehab wouldbe a good place for to go at the end of her stay here.escription document: 1-8109105 hffocus transcriptionistsdictated by: crafton , benedictattending: konderla , kirk tannerdictation id 5579291d: 4/15/05t: 4/15/05[report_end]