378777222 | bcmc | 24492761 | | 7054592 | 10/21/2004 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/21/2004 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: grover schechtman mdprincipal diagnoses: urinary tract infection and lower extremityedema.list of problems and diagnoses: atrial fibrillation , venousstasis.history of present illness: this is an 87-year-old woman with ahistory of atrial fibrillation , congestive heart failure andlower extremity edema who was admitted to j.alva health with increased calf swelling , weight gain , leg pain andmalaise. over the past few months prior to admission , thepatient had noted a gradual weight gain to about a total of 20pounds in two months. she had noted an increase in her chroniclower extremity edema with increasing pain over the last mothsuch that she has been taking percocet for the pain. for the twoto three days prior to admission , the patient complained offeeling "weak" and unable to get up out of bed due to fatigue andgeneral malaise. she denies any increasing shortness of breath.she has had no chest pain , no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. shealways sleeps with the head of her bed elevated , but generallyhas not noted any problem with lying flat. the patient has hadsome complaint issues with her torsemide in the past due to lackof ability to pay for medications; however , she states she hasbeen taking her medications as directed in the weeks prior toadmission. she has had no cough , no fevers and chills. nodysuria , no diarrhea , no nausea or vomiting.review of systems: positive only for nasal congestion andchronic constipation.the patient presented to the emergency department with her chiefcomplaint of weakness and increasing edema. in the emergencydepartment , she had lower extremity non-invasive ultrasoundstudies , which were negative for dvt and a urinalysis revealeduti. she was treated in the ed with 500-mg levofloxacin and40-mg iv lasix , which resulted in a 1700 cc urine output. ofnote , the patient does have a lasix allergy , which gives her rashand gi upset. she does tolerate torsemide. lasix was given inthe ed before it was known the patient have lasix allergy.past medical history:1. atrial fibrillation onset 1986 , on coumadin.2. pacemaker single chamber.3. postherpetic neurologia.4. gerd.5. hypercholesterolemia.6. obesity.7. gout.8. venous stasis lower extremities.9. echocardiogram 10/8/04: ef 55% low normal left ventricularfunction.allergies:1. quinidine causing rash.2. lasix causing rash and gi upset.3. penicillin reaction unknown.4. erythromycin reaction unknown.medications: medications at admission include:1. lopressor 25 b.i.d.2. coumadin 5 mg q.h.s.3. torsemide 20 mg p.o. q.d.4. percocet p.r.n.5. senna two tablets b.i.d.6. colace two tablets b.i.d.social history: social history notable for the fact that thepatient lives alone; however , she does get help with meals andhousework , her family is involved.physical examination: at admission was notable for vital asfollows , 98.2 , heart rate 81 , blood pressure 114/60 , respirations20 , oxygen saturation 98% on room air. the patient was atired-appearing woman sitting in bed in no acute distress. heetexam notable for a nonreactive right pupil. jugular venouspulsation was visible at approximately 8 cm. heart exam revealedregular rate and rhythm with normal s1 and s2 with a 2 out of 6systolic murmur heard at the left upper sternal border with noradiation. neck exam revealed jugular venous pulsations atapproximately 8 cm. heart exam reveals regular rate and rhythmwith normal s1 , s2 and 2 out of 6 systolic murmur at the leftupper sternal border with no radiation. lungs were clear toauscultation bilaterally. extremities revealed extensivebilateral edema with chronic venous stasis pigmentary changes andbrawny erythremia of the lower shins. dp and pt pulses were notpalpable , but feet were 1.laboratory data: labs at admission were notable for creatinineof 1.3 , which was consistent with her baseline , creatinine andthe white blood count of 11.5. hematocrit of 38.3 alsoconsistent with her baseline. inr was 2.8 and ptt was 48.1.cardiac enzymes were negative. bnp was 232. urinalysis revealed20 to 25 white blood cells per high-powered field on analysis ofsediment. chest x-ray revealed persistent mild cardiomegaly ,some chronic intrastitial markings and a single lead pacemaker.ekg was completely v-paced rate of 80.hospital course by system: in summary , this is an 87-year-oldwoman admitted with leg pain and swelling and weight gain likelysecondary to chronic venous stasis and with general malaise dueto urinary tract infection.1. infectious disease , urinary tract infection. the patient wastreated with a 3-day course of levofloxacin and a urine culturewas sent , which had no growth at the time of discharge , but wasnot yet finalized. final results pending and discharged.2. cardiovascular , the patient has symptoms of total body volumeoverloaded in her lower extremities; however , she had symptoms ofleft-sided heart failure and it is likely the swelling in herlegs is more secondary to chronic venous stasis than toright-sided heart failure per se. she was treated with diuresiswith an increased dose of torsemide 40 gm iv b.i.d. was placed onthe low-salt diet and did have a total diuresis of approximatelytwo liters over the course of her hospital stay with decrease inswelling of the lower extremity. she was also given ted hose tocompress and mobilize fluid and was maintained with her legselevated for anytime that she was resting in bed or in the chair.the patient was also maintained on her usual cardiovascularmedications including lopressor and coumadin.3. heme. the patient was on coumadin with the therapeutic inr.her lower extremity noninvasive studies were negative for dvt.4. cord status. the patient's cord status is do notresuscitate , do not intubate.5. the patient's final disposition was still pending at the timeof dication. she will be discharged to either to home withservices or to rehab pending final evaluation by physical therapyregarding her safety with ambulation and mobility at home. anaddendum to discharge summary with final disposition and followup will be dictated.medications at discharge: medications at discharge are asfollows:1. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.2. lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.3. senna two tablets p.o. b.i.d.4. coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.h.s.5. levofloxacin 250 gm p.o. q.d. for a total of three doses.6. torsemide 20 mg p.o. q.d.7. lac-hydrin 12% topical b.i.d.8. oxycodone 5 to 10 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain.escription document: 4-7639655 cssten telcc: jarod wolbeck m.d.andsr c hospitalvirginiadictated by: chartier , kelleyattending: johnsey , quentindictation id 0293706d: 8/29/04t: 4/17/04