record date: 2097-08-21neil, rubainternal medicine associates, suite mshady rest care center, 4th floor , room 483arroyo grande, ks, 19741-6273		re: alaina  rojas08/21/2097admission note87 yo woman with bilat leg swelling for several weeks; now with 1 week of redness l> r.  problems:diabetes mellitus- hgb a1c7.6hypertension- adequate controlhyperlipidemiachronic renal failureiron deficiency anemiaallergies:no known drug allergymedications:vitamin d 1000 units po dailyglipizide 10 mg po bid take 30min before mealsprandin 2 mg before each meal 2 week supply til mail order arrivesferrous sulfate 325mg po bidlisinopril 40 mg po dailynorvasc 10mg po dailymetoprolol 25mg po take 3 tabs twice a daylovastatin 10mg po qpm take with foodfurosemide 20 mg po dailyecotrin 325 mg po dailyfamily history:she was born in arroyo grande.  she had five children; four of them are alive, all living in the area.  husband died in 2080. mother had parkinson's disease.  sister had breast cancer at the age of 72.social history:continues to get out to the american senior center, except on one day.  in the spring, she continues to get out, goes to bingo and continues to be very active.  she gets out everyday.  she is very active.  daughters are very involved with her.  we have gone over in detail on this visit managing all of her issues.  continues to go to the club at dekalb three times a week.  review of systems:no change in bowel habits, although she is a little bit constipated.  urine, no hematuria or urinary tract symptoms. cardiac: no chest pain, shortness of breath, pnd, or orthopnea.  pulmonary, no wheezes or asthma symptoms. heent: no ear or throat symptoms.  allergies: no new issues with that.  neurologic: no new issues.  psychiatric: very anxious about all of the medications she has to take it as she was someone, who never needed pills.  we tried to reassure her and spent the majority of this 45-minute visit on that coordinating her care.physical exam:blood pressure: 130/82pulse: 57weight: 167 poundsoffice blood glucose fingerstick: 221 at noonskin: warm and dry.  no rashesneck: carotids, normal upstroke without bruitsnodes: lymph nodes, no lymphadenopathybreasts: no masses, discharge, or tendernesschest: lungs are entirely clear with no wheezes, rales, or rhonchicor: no murmurs, rubs, or gallops, regular rateabdomen: nontender without massesextrem: violaceous l shin without obvious streaking; swollen without tenderness.  r shin present but not as severelabs: pendingassessment and plan:admit for antibiotics ivruba neil, md pager #34596signed electronically by  ruba neil, mddocument status: final