admission date :2015-03-17discharge date :2015-03-23date of birth :1992-12-06sex :mservice:addendum :the initial part to this discharge summary confirmation number was 276836 ( i believe ) .please add this dictation to initial dictation done on 2015-03-26 .after quoting vital signs , please include :the patient was alert and oriented times three with n. ramirez coma scale of 15 on arrival .he was following all commands and moving all extremities .the pupils were equal , round , and reactive to light .the tympanic membranes were clear .the oropharynx was clear .the extraocular muscles were intact .cardiovascular examination revealed regular rate and rhythm .chest was clear to auscultation bilaterally .good breath sounds .no crepitus .positive tenderness over the distal half of the left rib cage .the abdomen was tender in the left upper quadrant .positive guarding .the pelvis was stable .no deformities .no costovertebral angle tenderness bilaterally .no deformities , stepoff , or tenderness of the cervical spine .rectal examination was guaiac-negative .good tone .the right upper extremity was positive for abrasions .the right lower extremity was positive for abrasions .left upper and lower extremities revealed no deformities .strength was 5/5 times four extremities .good pulses throughout .the patient was brought to the operating room for resuscitation .the patient responded to aggressive resuscitation and was hemodynamically stable .at this time , the decision to treat the patient nonoperatively was made , and the patient was admitted to the intensive care unit for close monitoring .the patient was kept nothing by mouth with intravenous fluids , bed rest , every 4-hour hematocrit checks , and serial abdominal examinations .the athol memorial hospital hospital course was unremarkable .the patient remained hemodynamically stable throughout the course of his hospital stay , and his hematocrit was relatively stable with a gradual drop due to dilutional changes .on post trauma day four , the patient remained hemodynamically stable with a stable hematocrit and a soft , nontender , and nondistended abdomen .the patient 's bed rest status was changed to out of bed , and oral intake was started .the patient tolerated the advancement of his diet without problems .the patient ambulated with pain on the left lower extremity secondary to the left pubic rami fractures .physical therapy was consulted , and crutches were given to the patient .pain was managed with a fentanyl patch and by mouth dilaudid with adequate pain control on discharge .discharge status :the patient was discharged to home .discharge diagnoses:1. grade 3 splenic laceration .2. left rib 8 through 12 fractures .3. left superior/inferior pubic rami fractures .4. comorbidities of anxiety disorder/depression .discharge instructions/followup:1. the patient was asked to call his physician if he experienced any lightheadedness , dizziness , nausea , vomiting , fevers , or chills .2. the patient was instructed to not participate in contact sports for six weeks .3. the patient was instructed to follow up in the traumaclinic in three to four weeks .condition at discharge :the patient 's condition on discharge was stable .medications on discharge :1. fentanyl 75-mcg per hour patch q.72h.2. zoloft 50 mg by mouth once per day .3. wellbutrin 200 mg by mouth twice per day .4. dilaudid one to two tablets by mouth q.4-6h. as needed ( for pain ) .ernest k. gardner , m.d.09-697dictated by :sarah z stephens , m.d.medquist36d :2015-03-2618:08t :2015-03-2621:53job# :81804signed electronically by :dr. billie schneider on :fri 2015-03-27 11:01 am( end of report )