record #700421599469946 | clkh | 55995690 | | 8330433 | 8/19/2006 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 6/30/2006 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: kriege , derrick m.d.chief complaint: right thigh burn , cellulitis and diabeticketoacidosis.history of present illness: ms. hesby is a 36-year-old womanwith very poorly controlled type 1 diabetes and extensive endorgan damage including end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis ,right eye blindness , lower extremity neuropathy , gastroparesisand a history of extensive infections including vre line sepsis ,mrsa , abdominal abscesses and chronic dermal ulcers. due to herdermal ulcers , she developed left ankle osteomyelitis requiringbelow-the-knee amputation. she was transferred from shiredo sert of valley on 3/28/06 in dka in the setting of a right thigh burnand possible infection.the patient was in her usual state of health until three daysprior to admission when she spilled hot broth on her right thighand developed a painful red bullae. she presented to path community hospital two days prior to admission , but still she had aninfection. she was given a prescription for antibiotics , whichshe did not fill. the area of swelling in her right leg did notspread from the original blister area all the way up to her groinand grossly became more tender and warm. on the day ofadmission , she returned to the threei cent hospital emergency roomfor evaluation. of note , in going to the emergency room , shemissed her regular hemodialysis. in the ingsparks down healthemergency room , the following vital signs were noted.temperature afebrile , heart rate 60 , blood pressure 150/50 ,oxygen saturation 95% on room air. wbc 4.3 , hematocrit 38 ,sodium 126 , potassium 7.9 , glucose 1221 , anion gap 13 , acetonenegative , ast 385 , alt 127 and alk phos 411. ekg revealed peak qwaves. the patient was given 20 units of iv insulin and then wasstarted on an insulin drip 8 units per hour. she also received 2amps of calcium gluconate as well as kayexalate and albuterolnebs. a repeat chem-7 in the amoore medical center ed showed a glucose of1100 and an anion gap of 18 with potassium 5.4. the patient wastransferred to the micu at eh for further management. at thetime of her transfer , she noted left-sided headache , a warmfeeling over her right thigh. she denied any recent fever ,shortness of breath , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting ordiarrhea. she did note that her last bowel movement was threedays prior to admission.past medical history:1. poor controlled type 1 diabetes.2. end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis monday , wednesday andfriday - left chest hemodialysis catheter for access.3. history of vre line sepsis.4. history of mrsa.5. history of abdominal abscess.6. chronic dermal ulcers.7. chf.8. history of cardiac murmur.9. seizure disorder.10. multiple strokes.11. chronic nausea.12. personality disorder , deemed not to have capacity - guardianis carlton wender # 880-357-5648.home medications:1. lantus 24 units subcu each night.2. novolog sliding scale.3. phoslo.4. nephrocaps.5. vitamin d.6. sevelamer 1600 t.i.d.7. toprol 100 mg p.o. daily.8. lisinopril 5 mg p.o. daily.9. plavix 75 mg p.o. daily.10. keppra 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.11. flovent two puffs b.i.d.12. albuterol p.r.n.13. baclofen 5 mg p.o. t.i.d.14. ambien 10 mg p.o. at bedtime p.r.n.transfer medications: none.allergies: aspirin causes tongue swelling. codeine ,erythromycin beef , poke and insulin all caused unknown reactions.social history: the patient lives with a personal care assistantand her daughter. she has four children ages 5 to 20. shedenies tobacco use or alcohol use. she denies any illegal druguse. guardian is malik conly , telephone number 880-357-5648.per court order , the patient does not have capacity to makemedical decisions.family history: noncontributory.notable admission exam: weight 70 kg. general , sleepy , butarousable a&amp;o x3 , conversant and cooperative. heent , blind righteye , left eye reactive. op clear with moist mucous membranes.neck supple. chest clear to auscultation bilaterally. nodullness. cardiovascular , jvp flat. regular rate and rhythm.3/6 systolic ejection murmur at the left upper sternal borderwith low rumble at the left lower sternal border radiating to theapex. no delaying carotid upstrokes. abdomen distended.positive bowel sounds. nontender. visible old peritonealdialysis site with serosanguinous drainage and granulation ,otherwise noninflamed and nontender. extremities , left bka , wellhealed. right thigh 4 x 5-cm open bullae with clear drainage anda surrounding tender area of erythema and warmth extending up tothe groin and down to the knee , 2+ dorsalis pedis pulse on theright. neurological , a&amp;o x3 , cooperative , anxious about gettingiv access. skin , multiple excoriation , all subcentimetermacules.notable labs: sodium 133 , potassium 4.3 , chloride 98 ,bicarbonate 19 , bun 47 , creatinine 8.3 , calcium 8.5 , magnesium2.1 , phosphate 2.9 , anion gap 15 , alt 84 , ast 186 , alk phos 264 ,t. bili 1.0 , troponin less than assay , bnp 4900 , amylase andlipase normal , serum osms 337 , lactate 4.7 , wbc 5.3 , hematocrit31.6 , platelets 208 , 000 , inr 1.3. abg 7.28/42/128. ekg normalsinus rhythm at 74 , normal axis , normal intervals , no ischemia ,no peak t-waves. echo in july 2006 , mild lvh , ef 65% to 70% , nowall motion abnormalities , mildly enlarged right ventricle ,normal rv outflow tract , mild left atrial enlargement , mild rightatrial enlargement , mild aortic stenosis , trace mitralregurgitation , trace tricuspid regurgitation , pulmonary arterypressure of 48 , ivc dilated with diminished respirophasicvariation consistent with markedly elevated right atrialpressure.hospital course:1. dka: the patient was stabilized in the micu on an insulindrip and was then transferred to general medicine for furthermanagement. causes of dka that were ruled out included thefollowing - negative cardiac enzymes , unimpressive pancreaticenzymes , unimpressive lactate , normal lfts. the patient's dkawas presumed to be due to her right thigh cellulitis in thesetting of a local burn. she initially was given 500 ml normalsaline boluses and then several 250 ml boluses. as she isaneuric , her boluses were stopped once the blood sugars werebelow 500. she initially was placed on insulin drip that wasthen transitioned to nph and finally to lantus 24 units subcudaily. of note , the patient intermittently refused to take bothher long-acting and her insulin sliding scale. as a result , anendocrinology consult was called. the patient was noted to beordering extra food from the kitchen , which could in part explainher labile sugars. despite careful diet and glucose controlefforts , the patient still had sugars at times to the 500s.endocrinology continues to leave recommendations about acstanding insulin in addition to her novolog sliding scale andlantus insulin. the patient has a history of gastroparesis andtherefore may not tolerate ac insulin very well. the patient'snew covering team will continue to follow up with endocrinology.2. right thigh cellulitis: the patient was placed on augmentinand iv vancomycin. her area of cellulitis has completelyresolved at the present time with slight sloughing of theoverlying skin. the underlying skin is pink with evidence ofgood granulation and no further evidence of infection. giventhat her iv access is very difficult , the patient received somevancomycin , as she finishes hemodialysis every other day.3. end-stage renal disease: the patient missed her dialysis onthe day of admission. once in the hospital , her potassium wasvery difficult to control in part due to poor adherence with herrenal diet and in part due to her very labile sugars. at times ,her potassium would rapidly increase to a level higher than 6.5requiring urgent dialysis. at the present time , the patient hasbeen dialyzed daily since her admission. she is closely followedby renal with plans to continue dialysis while in the hospital.she should not receive any further intravenous fluids unless shehas evidence of recurrent dka , given her anuric state. shouldshe become acidotic , the patient can be managed with sodiumbicarbonate and d5w in small boluses.4. cardiovascular: ischemia , there was no evidence of chestpain. the patient has showed no ekg signs of ischemia. hercardiac enzymes remained negative. lipids are pending at thepresent time. lipid profile check is pending at the presenttime. pump , the patient has a history of chf with evidence ofright heart failure likely due to valvular disease in some aspectof the diastolic dysfunction given her preserved ejectionfraction. her weight on admission was 70 kg. we did not knowher dry weight. dialysis is helping to manage her fluids givenher aneuric status. her o2 sats remained stable on room airthroughout the hospitalization. her hypertension has beensomewhat poorly controlled and for that reason she was continuedon her home dose of lopressor 25 q.i.d. and switched tocaptopril , which we continued to titrate at the present time.rhythm , normal sinus rhythm. the patient is currently ontelemetry with no signs of arrhythmia.5. fluids , electrolytes , nutrition: the patient was placed on acardiac , renal and diabetic diet. she was noted to repeatedlyorder extra food from the kitchen supervisor. nutritionendocrinology and nursing staff are all aware and are workingdiligently to prevent the patient from receiving more than 2000calories per day as specified by her ada diet. she is continuingher nephrocaps and sevelamer. prophylaxis , heparin 5000 unitssubcu t.i.d. - the patient has consistently refused her heparin.6. consent: all interventions require consent from thepatient's medical guardian , stanley paneque ( please see numberabove ).7. code status: the patient is full code and this has beenconfirmed with the guardian.addendumof note , on the night of 1/26/06 , the patient complained ofsevere cramping , right lower quadrant pain , which is new. shenoted this pain has increased rapidly in the setting of diarrhea.several c. diff studies , which were sent recently have beennegative and the patient has had no blood in her diarrhea.presumed cause is augmentin , which has been stopped. the patienthas continued to eat freely and is passing diarrhea despite hercomplaints of 10/10 severe abdominal pain. a ct scan of herabdomen was ordered , but she refused to take oral or iv contrast.the results of this ct scan are pending and will be followed upby the new medical team.escription document: 3-4408397 cssten teldictated by: tarone , antoniaattending: jame chatterton , m.d. ld63dictation id 5989686d: 11/29/06t: 11/29/06[report_end]