admission date :2015-08-22discharge date :2015-08-26date of birth :1946-09-05sex :mservice :cmedallergies :patient recorded as having no known allergies to drugsattending : leroy f stalnaker , m.d.chief complaint :right-sided weakness and difficulty speakingmajor surgical or invasive procedure :tpa administrationhistory of present illness :68 year old right handed man with multiple vascular risk factors , including 2 previous strokes and two myocardial infarctions , hypertension and hypercholesterolemia , who presents with acute onset right sided hemiplegia and dysarthria .he went to the bathroom on his own at 6:12 am and then called for help at 6:15 am .his wife found him with weak right leg , flaccid right arm , and severe dysarthria .she called 911 and he was brought to hahnemann general hospital lydia .ros :wife denies any recent bleeding , surgeries , or upper respiratory infection .past medical history :1. 1992 anterior cerebellar infarction2. silent stroke affecting anterior part of brain3. 2014-09-24 left mca stroke leaving him with right facial droop4. cad with mi 1999 and cabg5. hypercholesterolinemia6. hypertension7. remote smoking history8. depression9. bipolar disordersocial history :he is n. quinn educated retired data processor who lives with his wife .brian quit smoking and drinking in 1980s .no history of ivdufamily history :patient 's mother died of stroke at the age of 54 .physical exam :vitals 97.2 164/97 59 20 100% room airgeneral exam including head , neck , heart , lung , abdominal and extremity exam , was normal .neuro exam :awake , oriented to person and placenonfluent speech with inability to repeat .intact to simple comprehension such as " show your left hand " but not " show your left thumb " .no neglectcn - pupil 3 to 2 mm reactive bilaterally .eomi .visual field full to hand waving .right facial droop .motor - decreased tone on right arm .unable to move right arm but able to lift right leg antigravity for less than 5 secondssensory - dense loss to touch on the right arm and legreflex - 1+ / 4 in upper extremity , 2+ / 4 at patellar , trace ankle .toe upgoing on right only .coordination :intact on left finger to nose but limited on right due to weaknesspertinent results :creatinine slightly elevated at 1.3 , otherwise cbc , chemistries normal .cardiac enzymes normal .valproate level within range .ct head :slight effacement of posterior insular cortex .mri head :restricted diffusion in left frontotemporal region in the distribution of the right middle cerebral artery indicating acute infarct .brain atrophy .changes of small vessel disease and chronic lacunes bilaterally in basal ganglia .probable chronic infarct in the right occipital cortex .also a chronic infarction in the right cerebellum .no acute hemorrhage .mra :subtle decreased flow signal within the sylvian branches of the left middle cerebral artery .no evidence of major vascular occlusion seen .carotid ultrasound :no stenosisecho :elongated left atrium .lv cavity moderately dilated .lvef 30-35% .no masses or thrombi are seen in the left ventricle .resting regional wall motion abnormalities include apical dyskinesis and distal anterior , septal , mid and distal inferior and inferolateral wall akinesis .normal rv size and function .mildly dilated aortic root and ascending aorta .no aortic or mitral regurgitation .no pericardial effusion .brief hospital course :assessment :68m with multiple vascular risk factors presents with acute onset right-sided hemiparesis and dysarthria , aphasia concerning for acute left mca infarct .patient arrived in daniel within 3 hours of symptom onset and head ct showed no evidence of bleed .however , as wife had not seen patient before he became symptomatic , there was some concern that he had symptoms earlier than 6 am , and therefore would be outside the 3 hour window for tpa .mri was performed which showed diffusion abnormalities but no hyperintensity on t2 / flair imaging supporting the acute onset .therefore , iv tpa thrombolytics were administered within 3 hours of symptom onset .within minutes the patient showed decreased right sided weakness and improved from a global aphasia to an anterior aphasia picture .given the likely embolic etiology of infarct , carotid doppler and tte were performed .doppler revealed no hemodynamically significant lesions bilaterally .echo did not reveal potential source of emboli , but showed striking left ventricle akinesis and hypokinesis presumbly due to past mi x 2 .given that the stroke occurred while taking aspirin and plavix , and given the severe akinesis of the left ventricle , we decided to initiate anticoagulation with warfarin to help prevent future strokes .anticoagulation therapy was initiated with heparin and coumadin beginning on the evening of 2016-08-23 .the patient and his wife , a nurse , were educated on low molecular wt heparin , which was started in the hospital on 2015-08-26 with close follow-up scheduled with dr. demmert of the wareham va primary care clinic the next morning .his depakote was continued for his bipolar disorder .on discharge , strength was nearly intact in the limbs , though he still had a right-sided facial droop .additionally , he still had mild dysarthria and mild anterior aphasia .additionally , risk factor modification was continued .lipid panel was checked and showed good control of lipids on his home dose of zocor .patient has no history of diabetes , and fasting glucose was 78 , but a1c was slightly elevated at 5.9 .he may need further glucose monitoring in the future .his home hypertensive medications were held while in the hospital to help increase cerebral perfusion and prevent further ischemia .they will be restarted on discharge .speech therapy was also consulted , and recommended oupatient speech therapy .similarly , outpatient pt was recommended for his gait difficulties from his previous strokes .residual deficits include right side facial droop from previous stroke and moderately severe dysarthria and anterior aphasia with word finding difficulties .medications on admission :captopril 50 bid , asa 81 , plavix 75 , zocor 40 , imdur 30 , lasix 10 , prozac 20 , iron , mvidischarge medications :1. enoxaparin sodium 80 mg / 0.8 ml syringe sig : one ( 1 ) syringe subcutaneous q12h ( every 12 hours ) : may discontinue once inr therapeutic as directed by your physician .2. divalproex sodium 500 mg tablet , delayed release ( e.c. ) sig : one ( 1 ) tablet , delayed release ( e.c. ) po bid ( 2 times a day ) .3. aspirin 325 mg tablet sig : one ( 1 ) tablet po qd ( once a day ) for 7 days .4. warfarin sodium 5 mg tablet sig : one ( 1 ) tablet po hs ( at bedtime ) .5. simvastatin 40 mg tablet sig : one ( 1 ) tablet po once a day .6. prozac 20 mg capsule sig : one ( 1 ) capsule po once a day .7. multivitamin capsule sig : one ( 1 ) capsule po once a day .8. captopril 50 mg tablet sig : one ( 1 ) tablet po twice a day .9. imdur 30 mg tablet sustained release 24 hr sig : one ( 1 ) tablet sustained release 24hr po once a day .discharge disposition :homedischarge diagnosis :infarction of left middle cerebral artery inferior division , s/ptpa , with residual dysarthria and aphasiahypertensionhypercholesterolemiacoronary artery diseasedischarge condition :good , with no motor deficits , mild dysarthria and mild anterior aphasiadischarge instructions :take all medications as directed and go for all scheduled appointments for anticoagulation monitoring .if problems with speech or weakness worsen , go immediately to an emergency room for evaluation .followup instructions :dr. demmert at wareham taunton state hospital clinic thursday 2015-08-27 10:30am and follow-up as scheduled by the va in their coumadin clinic .follow-up with dr. robert in 1-2 weeks .call his office for an appointment .follow-up with dr. tina phillips in stroke clinic in about 2 months .call 415 9374 to schedule an appointment .william william md , phd 13-279completed by : patricia francis md 16-284 2015-08-26 @ 1922signed electronically by : dr. exie culbreath on : sun 2015-09-06 10:03 pm( end of report )