507281424 | ch | 04542098 | | 3587452 | 7/5/2005 12:00:00 am | left hip infection | signed | dis | admission date: 8/29/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 4/5/2005attending: frederick golick mdprincipal diagnosis:left hip infection.history of present illness:this is a 60-year-old female who sustained a mechanical fall outof bed on 11/8/04 and suffered a left subtrochanteric fracturefor which she underwent left intramedullary nailing at rush-j hospital by dr. hipolito soderquist . some weeks later ,she returned with a left hip infection with drainage noted fromher wound. an irrigation and debridement was performed at anoutside hospital where concern for sepsis had developed in thecontext of hypotension. cultures from this procedure grew outmethicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus. she was transferredto the lomorerey tonlarg hospitals for further management; andon 5/29/05 , another irrigation and debridement was performed bydr. matula . vancomycin and rifampin were begun at this time.she was discharged to rehabilitation , had convalesced , andreturned home. not four days later , she was found on follow upto have continued drainage from the wound and increased pain inher left hip. she was admitted for treatment of continued lefthip infection. the patient arrived with a picc line in place onvancomycin for mrsa infection.past medical history:1. morbid obesity.2. polymyositis.3. fibromyalgia.4. asthma.5. gerd.6. hypertension.7. osteoarthritis.8. depression.medications:1. vancomycin 1000 mg iv q.24h.2. lovenox 40 mg subcutaneous daily.3. prilosec 20 mg p.o. daily.4. lopressor 25 mg p.o. t.i.d.5. amitriptyline 100 mg p.o. q.h.s.6. duoneb q.6h. p.r.n. wheeze.7. prozac 40 mg p.o. daily.8. prednisone 7.5 mg p.o. daily.9. benadryl p.r.n.10. vicodin p.r.n.allergies:no known drug allergies.physical exam on admission:afebrile , heart rate stable , serosanguineous drainage from lefthip wound , range of motion decreased secondary to pain. leftlower extremity warm and well perfused. sensation intact tolight touch in all distributions.hospital course:the patient was admitting from clinic for further evaluation andmanagement of the suspected left hip infection. a ct scan wasperformed which revealed a 12 cm x 7 cm x 4.5 cm fluid collectionlateral to the hip extending into the surrounding soft tissueswith question of contiguity with the nail/intramedullary space.given the patient's history with general anesthesia includingdesaturations and difficulty with ventilation experienced onirrigation and debridement in april 2004 management aims weredirected towards the conservative if at all possible. yrradiology was consulted for potential ir drainage of thecollection and anesthesiology was consulted of her previousevents under sedation. on 3/3/05 , the patient underwent act-guided drainage of fluid collection with placement of adrainage catheter. a 10 cc of pus was immediately aspirated uponintroduction of the guiding needle. a gram stain revealed 4+pmns and no growth on aerobic or anaerobic cultures. bloodcultures drawn the following day also showed no growth. theinfectious disease service continued to follow the patient inhouse with recommendations to continue vancomycin withoutrifampin that had been suggested upon previous discharge anddespite her itchiness with infusions since no other signs ofsymptoms of allergic or anaphylactic reaction had occurred. hervancomycin regimen was changed to 1000 mg iv q.12h. and slightlyhigher trough levels were tolerated by the id service due to thepatient's renal function and the persistence of the patient'sinfection. continued monitoring of vancomycin levels weretherefore not recommended.due to continued drainage from the catheterized wound , thedecision was made for treatment of the hip by a multistageprocedure , in which the hardware would be removed and antibioticsspacer placed temporarily while longterm iv antibiotic treatmentwas pursued for at least six weeks and finally the hip replacedwith total arthroplasty , once evidence suggested that infectionhad been cleared.on 11/29/05 , the patient underwent removal of the intramedullarynail , girdlestone procedure , and placement of antibiotic beads.please see the operative note for further details. the procedureproceeded without complication including any anesthetic events ashad occurred in the past. she was transfused 2 units of packedred blood cells due to a postoperative hematocrit of 24experiencing an appropriate rise following transfusion. gramstain from intramedullary reamings showed 2+ polys with noorganisms and cultures revealed no growth. she described minimalpain and was able to weightbear as tolerated on the left lowerextremity without difficulty. a urinary tract infection wasfound on preoperative evaluation for the second stage operationand she was treated with a seven-day course of levofloxacin.on 4/23/05 , the patient returned to the or for removal ofantibiotic beads and placement of an antibiotic spacer , pleasesee the operative note for further details. this too proceededwithout intraoperative complications , however , postoperatively ,it was found that the spacer head was slightly dislocated. thiswas tolerated and the patient was allowed to weightbear. she didthis minimally secondary to increased pain. she was also againtransfused with 2 units of packed red blood cells due to ahematocrit of 24 with an appropriate rise in her hematocritfalling. given the increased pain , the obvious shortening of theleg with external rotation and without neurovascular compromisethe patient was counseled that operative exploration andreplacement of the spacer would be recommended. while thepatient did understand the need for this , she became moredepressed at the prospect of what described a "set back."psychiatry was consulted for support and potential change inmedications if they deemed fit. they did not recommend anychanges in her current antidepressant regimen but did suggestcontinued support by social work. this was indeed the case.by 10/3/05 , the patient was at the peace with the decision forfurther surgery and she returned to the or. please see theoperative note for further details. the patient underwent a leftantibiotic space replacement with fusion of the head in thesocket. the patient tolerated the procedure well. herpostoperative course was unremarkable. she did complain of somepain with movement of her left hip but this was to be expectedgiven the fusion of the spacer head with the socket and this paindid improve with time. she also noted some difficulty withambulation given her shorter left leg , a left leg lift wastherefore provided to her. by the time of discharge , she wasvoiding , tolerating regular diet , and ambulating with assistance.physical therapy did work with her for weightbearing astolerated on the left lower extremity with posterior precautions.she was discharged in stable condition to a rehabilitationfacility for further subacute care and with instructions tocontinue iv vancomycin for another six weeks ( starting date9/15/05 ). she was also instructed to follow up with dr. mumain one to two weeks. the patient will followed by the infectiousdisease service when she returns in house and the service isreconsulted at that time.the patient arrived on the prednisone taper which was eventuallydiscontinued per patient wishes and agreement with herrheumatologist , her last dose was on 7/30/05 and she will notcontinue with prednisone thereafter.discharge instructions:1. please follow electrolytes and vancomycin trough level atleast twice weekly.2. the patient may shower with assistance , keep incision cleanand dry with dry gauze dressings , changed daily.3. continue vancomycin for a six-week course starting on9/15/05 . a trough up to 30 should be tolerated , please hold fora creatinine of greater than 1.3 , adjust and hold according torenal function.4. physical therapy , weightbearing as tolerated on the leftlower extremity , leg lift posterior precautions. follow up withdr. gugel of orthopedic surgery in one to two weeks.discharge medications:1. amitriptyline 100 mg p.o. q.h.s.2. valium 1 mg p.o. q.8h. p.r.n. muscle spasm.3. benadryl 25 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. itching.4. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. constipation.5. prozac 40 mg p.o. daily.6. lopressor 25 mg p.o. t.i.d.7. nubain 10 mg iv q.6h. p.r.n. itching.8. oxycodone 5-10 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain.9. lovenox 40 mg subcutaneus daily.10. esomeprazole 40 mg p.o. daily.11. duoneb 3/0.5 mg nebulizer q.6h. p.r.n. wheeze or shortnessof breath.12. vancomycin 1000 mg iv q.12h. premedicated with benadryl foritching. tolerate trough up to 30 hold for creatinine greaterthan 1.3.escription document: 8-0366357 emssten teldictated by: landolt , robinattending: tutson , andersondictation id 1335063d: 7/30/05t: 7/30/05