369661959fih200055129383/3lyb5662397/27/1994 12:00:00 amcecal fistula secondary to recurrent retroperitonealunsigneddisreport status :unsignedadmission date :7-27-94discharge date :8-16-94principal diagnosis :cecal fistula secondary to recurrent retroperitoneal sarcoma .special procedures and operations :right colectomy on 8-2-94 .history of present illness :the patient is a 52 year old female who underwent removal of a right psoas muscle for retroperitoneal sarcoma in 03/92 .she did well until about a month ago when she developed fever , chills and a right flank pain .work up for this included an abdominal computerized tomography scan which disclosed a large right flank mass , associated with the right colon .a computerized tomography scan guided aspiration revealed that the mass is solid .the barium enema disclosed spastic right colon and suggested tiny linear collection of barium extending toward the mass .past medical history :1. coronary artery disease , status post percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty several years ago , no angina pectoris since , history of mitral valve prolapse .medications on admission :cardizem 100 mg po q.day , flagyl 500 mg po t.i.d. , ciprofloxacin 750 mg po b.i.d. , vitamin c 500 mg , iron , duragesic patch .allergies :the patient is allergic to sulfa and renografin , as well as betadyne .past surgical history :as above , plus cesarean section x two ,2. tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy ,3. cholecystectomy ,4. appendectomy ,5. right salpingo-oophorectomy ,6. right inguinal hernia repair .physical examination :on physical examination , patient is afebrile , vital signs stable .the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat exam demonstrated no icterus , neck was supple .the lungs were clear to auscultation and percussion .cardiovascular exam :regular rate and rhythm , mid-systolic click with i / vi mitral regurgitation murmur .abdomen :soft , tender right flank with mass .voluntary guarding , no peritoneal signs , normal active bowel sounds , nondistended .extremities :no clubbing , cyanosis or edema .the neurological examination was nonfocal .the rectal examination was guaiac negative , no masses .hospital course :the patient was admitted to the hospital , to the private surgery service .a chest x-ray on admission revealed a left lower lobe nodule suspicious for metastases .because of this , a computerized tomography scan was obtained which revealed multiple nodules within both lungs , predominantly in the periphery , largest up to a centimeter , highly suspicious for metastases .due to an abnormal electrocardiogram , the patient was seen in consultation preoperatively and an exercise tolerance test with thallium was performed , which was normal .the patient continued to run low grade fevers but was continued on cefotetan .on the sixth hospital day , the patient was brought to the operating room where she underwent right colectomy , g-tube placement .there were no complications during the procedure .findings included sinus tract from the right cecum into a right lower quadrant tumor .there was gross fecal soilage after removal of the tumor .infectious disease consultation was obtained postoperatively due to the fecal contamination and patient was placed on vancomycin , gentamicin , and flagyl .she remained hemodynamically stable , although she did spike temperatures postoperatively .all blood cultures were negative .the patient was seen in consultation by oncology and chemotherapy was set up for her at the brook hospital near her home .the patient continued to run low grade temperatures and an abdominal computerized tomography scan was obtained which revealed no abscess .bowel function returned by postoperative day ten and the patient 's diet was slowly advanced and her g-tube was gradually clamped .by the twelfth postoperative day , she was tolerating a regular diet and by the fourteenth postoperative day , she was felt ready for discharge .condition on discharge :good .doctors discharge orders :the patient will follow up with dr. ma .medications on discharge :diltiazem 180 mg po q. day , iron 300 mg po b.i.d. , folate 1 mg po q. day , ms contin 90 mg po q8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. 105 mg po at 11:00 p.m. , motrin 800 mg po t.i.d. , colace 100 mg po b.i.d. , ativan 0.5 mg po q6h prn .disposition / plan on discharge :the patient is to have santea gehawhi general hospital .ana v. a , m.d.dictating for :ongnique ma , m.d.tr :eg / bmotdd :8-16-94td :08/16/94cc :