admission date :2011-01-21discharge date :2011-02-23date of birth :1988-10-20sex :mservice :trauma serhistory of present illness :this 20 year old driver was in a major motor vehicle accident and brought to the emergency saints medical center following this , with multiple trauma .the patient was an unrestrained driver in a car versus tree .he was involved in a long extrication with a blood pressure of 88 at the scene .upon extrication from the vehicle , he was intubated and transported to the emergency room .he was tachycardic with an initial blood pressure of 120 / palpable .a groin line was placed and the patient was sedated and paralyzed .he was resuscitated with crystalloid and remained hemodynamically stable .he had a grossly deformed left lower extremity .on examination , belmont coma scale was 6t ; blood pressure was 120 / palpable with a heart rate of 122 .the trachea was midline .the abdomen was soft .rectal was heme positive with normal prostate .there were no meatal blood .the left femur was grossly deformed with a pinhole opening in the lateral thigh .his left forearm was also grossly deformed .there is no step-off at the back .admission laboratories included a hematocrit of 43.3 and white blood cell count of 25.2 , normal electrolytes and amylase of 98 .arterial blood gas showed a mild metabolic acidosis .additional assay shows slight widening of the mediastinum on chest x-ray .the ct scan of the head and chest were negative .there was a small liver laceration seen on the a/p pelvis .there was a distal ulnar and radial fracture as well as a left mid-shaft comminuted fracture of the femur .hospital course :the patient was admitted to the intensive care unit .he was also seen by the orthopedics service and neurosurgical service .he went to the operating room quickly and had an intramedullary rodding of the femur and open reduction and internal fixation of the radius and ulna .he was evaluated by neurosurgery for his head injury which showed multiple contusions in the frontal lobe .he was extubated on postoperative day two .he did have some blood loss anemia with a hematocrit of 20.9 .a repeat ct scan showed no change .he was begun on physical therapy but remained agitated .he was discharged to the floor .his hematocrit remained stable .his cervical spine was cleared .the patient was seen by psychiatry due to some delirium and question of suicidal ideation .he was also evaluated by the neuro-rehabilitation service who thought that he had a post-head injury syndrome with diffuse cognitive deficits .he continued to have some episodes of agitation which were treated with medication .he required some sedation and restraint and was begun on whatever physical therapy he could have given his head injury .he was continued to be followed by psychiatry and then was casted by orthopedics .he continued to have episodes of confusion .he removed the cast that had been placed and then a long-leg cast was then placed so it would be difficult for him to remove or to ambulate on his leg , which might jeopardize his closure .it continued to be somewhat difficult to control his activity and rehabilitation screen was in place but there was difficulty finding the appropriate facility .his family was also involved in his care and orientation .he does of buspar , trazodone and haldol were continued and were adjusted by psychiatry .he was continued on observation and sitters and finally became more docile and cooperative .he was continued on physical therapy and with his mother present , he began to follow commands much more appropriately and was able to be rehabilitated .he was finally sent home for home rehabilitation on 2011-02-23 .final diagnoses :1. multiple trauma with severe frontal head injury .2. open fracture of the femur .3. radial and ulnar fractures .4. liver laceration .surgical procedures :1. open reduction and internal fixation of femur 2011-01-21 .2. open reduction and internal fixation of radius and ulna 2011-01-21 .discharge medications :1. percocet , one p.o. q. four hours p.r.n. pain .2. haldol 1 mg p.o. q. four to six hours p.r.n. agitation .3. trazodone 50 mg p.o. q. h.s.4. droperidol 1.5 to 2.5 mg p.r.n. agitation .disposition :the patient is discharged home with home rehabilitation .discharge instructions :1. the patient will be followed by orthopedics , dr. johnson .2. to be followed by william scheidel of neurological rehabilitation .maria l. bell , m.d. 05-084dictated by : michael x. fisher , m.d.medquist36d : 2011-04-08 14:01t : 2011-04-10 08:09job # : 48774signed electronically by : dr. fredrick rossi on : wed 2011-04-13 1:45 pm( end of report )