record #95821773007983 | smuomc | 76581417 | | 046135 | 11/14/2002 12:00:00 am | non q wave myocardial infarction | signed | dis | admission date: 6/3/2002 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/7/2002diagnosis: the patient is status post non st elevation mi medicalmanagement.procedures: echocardiogram.chief complaint: syncope.history of present illness: this is a 75 year old woman withhistory of hypertension ,hyperlipidemia and past tobacco use and a history of angina but nopreviously known cad who is now presenting with syncope atbaseline. she had a history of angina with substernal sharp painonly with exertion and no radiation or associated symptoms and witha frequency approximately once every several months. she had nobaseline shortness of breath with one flight of stairs and walkingaround the house nor orthopnea , no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea orleg edema. she had "a couple of falls/syncope over the last year".most recently , about three months ago , without symptoms , thepatient did not seek medical attention. the night prior toadmission , at approximately 11:30 p.m. the patient was hanginglaundry and had a sudden episode of syncope with likely loss ofconsciousness of unclear duration but likely for minutes. thepatient denied any prodromal symptoms of chest pain , shortness ofbreath , palpitations , light-headnessness , visual changes , balance ,bowel or bladder incontinence , tonoclonic movements. shesubsequently felt weak and was unable to get up until on theafternoon admission where she was found by her apartment manager.review of systems: unremarkable. she denied uri symptoms , utisymptoms , bright red blood per rectum , melena ,normal appetite , stable weight , arthralgias , except for mild kneepain after the fall. she did note right sided arm and leg weaknessfor about a year that invoked a question of cva.past medical history: hypertension , hypothymia , past tobacco use ,question of an old cva , copd not o2dependent , status post appendectomy.medications: the patient is on aspirin , lisinopril , atenolol.allergies: the patient had no known medical allergies.social history: the patient lives alone in none she has twodaughters who live in in na thegranddaughter lives in porttempe his coucla her son is in font sheis a smoker with one cigarette every few days for about 45 years.the patient does not use ethanol.family history: the patient's father died of a myocardialinfarction at 79 and mother died at 27 duringpregnancy.physical examination: in the emergency department the patient hada temperature of 97.3 , heart rate of 108 ,blood pressure of 152/102 satting 96% on room air. her examinationis notable for poor hygiene , incontinence of urine , stool and atachycardia wheeze , poor strength throughout. on the floor herphysical examination showed a heart rate in the 90s , systolic bloodpressure of 110. she is satting 96% on four liters. in generalshe was comfortable but in mild respiratory distress with a wheeze.she was using her respiratory muscles. heent , extraocular musclesare intact , perrl. cranial nerves ii through xii are intact. neck- she had no adenopathy , thyromegaly or gp6. cardiovascular -regular rate and rhythm , normal s1 , s2 , no murmurs , rubs orgallops , distant heart sounds. respirations - she had somewheezes , no crackles. she had increased respiratory phase.abdomen - she was obese , non-tender and non-distended with leftgroin erythematous and scaling with a question of fungal infection.extremities - no edema. she had 1+ dorsalis pedis pulses. neuroexamination - she was alert. she knew she was at the dellsbrothers loitmette hospital .  she said it was 1982 , july , thursday. cranialnerves ii through xii are intact as previously noted. she had 4/5bilateral lower extremity strength. she had 1+ deep tendonreflexes with toes down going. she had normal sensation.laboratory data: sodium 134 , potassium 3.9 , chloride 101 , co2 26 ,bun 14 , creatinine 1.1 , glucose 139. she had ananion gap of 12. white count was 15.7 with 71% polys , 14% bands ,8% lymphs , 2% monos. her hematocrit was 47.0 , her platelets were366 , troponin was 3.99 , ck 1161 , mb 31.2. her albumin was 4.1 ,total bilirubin 0.4 , alkaline phosphatase 66 , alt 13 , ast 51. herlipids - her ldls 149 , total cholesterol 232 , hdl 49 , coags - herptt is 30.1 , inr 1.0. her head ct showed no evidence of bleed.she had an old lacunar in the thalamus. she had an old infarct inher ptm internal capsule. he ekg showed sinus tachycardia at 102normal axis , normal intervals , diffuse t wave inversions in 1 , 2 , 3avf , v2 to v6. her chest x-ray showed no active process.hospital course: the patient was found to have non st elevationmri and there was possible cause of her syncopeand was treated conservatively with medical management.cardiovascular - ischemia , st elevation , myocardial infarction.the patient was treated with aspirin , heparin , lopressor ,captopril , cozaar initially with heart rate and blood pressurecontrolled. an echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 30%with apical anterolateral wall motion abnormality and heparin wasdiscontinued. the patient had no further chest pain.pulmonary - the patient has had some wheezing on examinationsecondary to copd and the patient was started on atrovent nebs andsubsequently had no further wheezing.i.d. - the patient initially had an increased white count withbandemia of an unclear cause. her workup was negative. her uaand chest x-ray were negative. she had no fevers. her white bloodcell count ultimately declined to normal.renal - the patient was most likely dehydrated initially and wasgiven fluids until she had good urine output. her iv fluidsultimately discontinued. renal ultrasound was negative forhydronephrosis or obstruction.neuro - although the patient's ct was negative for acute stroke andpositive for possible infarct the patient declined mri of the brainto workup for a possible tia.plan following discharge: the patient is somewhat debilitatedfollowing her hospitalization , requiresphysical therapy to regain her ability to perform activities ofdaily living. additionally the patient should follow withgynecology , is scheduled for a workup for her incontinence whichmay also include an issue of uterine prolapse.dictated by: rickie riles , m.d. aa89attending: guy g. delfavero , m.d. wv48  dp536/960504batch: 7826 index no. l1ggahhqr3 d: 7/14/02t: 3/5/02[report_end]