record #280143989440897 | nmc | 79272356 | | 422062 | 1/7/1993 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 1/7/1993 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/11/1993discharge diagnosis: 1 ) coronary artery disease.2 ) status post torsade arrest.3 ) atrial fibrillation.operations and procedures: coronary artery bypass grafting timesthree on 6/6/93 . history of present illness: patient is a 72 year old man with ahistory of myocardial infarction in1979 and exertional angina times the last several months which waswell controlled on sublingual tng until he experienced a twelvehour episode of chest pain which was followed by exercise stresstest on 0/13/93 .  the patient , previous to his recent onset ofchest pain , had been very active with thirty to forty minutes ofexertion daily without chest discomfort. for the past five daysprior to admission , he noted progressive acceleration in his chestpain symptoms which were occurring with minimal exertion. thepatient's local physician performed an exercise stress test and thepatient developed symptoms at seven minutes of walking withassociated ecg changes. several hours after the stress test , hehad recurrent chest pain at home and took a total of twelvesublingual tng without relief. he presented to the ings hospital emergency room. current medications: medicationsat home including tenormin , allopurinol , and coated aspirin.allergies: no known drug allergies. cardiac risk factors werenegative for hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , tobacco , anddiabetes.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the cardiologyservice where he appeared to rule in formyocardial infarction. he was admitted to dr. vessservice and underwent cardiac catheterization on 6/3/93 .  thisrevealed a 50% distal left main lesion , 100% mid left anteriordescending lesion , 70% mid left circumflex lesion , 70% d1 lesion ,and 100% right coronary artery lesion. in the cardiaccatheterization laboratory , the patient had an intraaortic balloonpump secondary to ongoing chest pain and was referred to dr. bersawfor coronary artery bypass grafting. the patient was taken to theoperating room for coronary artery bypass grafting on 6/6/93 .  atthat time , he underwent an uncomplicated coronary artery bypassgrafting times four with grafts including vein grafts to the leftanterior descending , the d1 , om1 , and proximal descending artery.patient tolerated the procedure well and post-operatively , wasnoted to be somewhat hypoxic. his post-operative chest film themorning of post-operative day number one was notable foropacification of the left hemithorax. the patient was taken backto the operating room for evacuation of blood from the left chestand at that time , small bleeding site was found from a sternal wireon the left side. the patient returned to the intensive care unitand did well post-operatively being extubated post-operative daynumber one. his initial post-operative course was notable foratrial fibrillation with rates in the 100 range as well as someintermittent hypotension. the patient was transferred back to theies hospital on maryland for further management. on the day ofhis transfer , however , while being treated for rapid atrialfibrillation , he experienced a torsade arrest and a code blue wascalled. the patient was blindly intubated and from this event , wasfelt to have experienced an aspiration pneumonia. patient wassuccessfully resuscitated and was extubated several days later atwhich point he was transferred back to the cardiac surgicalservice. from that time on , he had a stable post-operative coursewith intermittent slow atrial fibrillation which was well toleratedby the patient. he continued to progress well and considerationwas made for need for transfer to a rehabilitation facility but thepatient made good progress with his cardiopulmonary rehabilitationby the physical therapy service and was safe for discharge to homeon post-operative day number thirteen.disposition: discharge medications: digoxin 0.125 mg q.d. ,captopril 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , tylenol #3 as neededfor pain , atrovent two puffs q.i.d. as needed , and enteric coatedaspirin one per day. he will follow-up with his local cardiologistin one to two weeks and with dr. beauchesne in six weeks.dictated by: noe geldrich , m.d. mp09attending: malcolm b. tuai , m.d. nb6  gf445/2943batch: 2437 index no. bgqk7i7st5 d: 11/2/94t: 8/14/94[report_end]