admission date :2014-03-05discharge date :2014-04-04date of birth :1942-08-15sex :mservice :cardiothoracic surgeryhistory of the present illness :this is a 71 - year-old gentleman who was admitted to the st. anne 's hospital as a transfer from the kindred park view specialty hospital of springfield .prior to admission , he had a long and complicated hospital course at the outside hospital .his hospital course began on 2014-02-13 when he underwent a right carotid endarterectomy for 95% stenosis of the carotid artery .his postoperative course was complicated by nonspecific t wave changes consistent with myocardial infarction postoperatively as well as hematoma formation .the hematoma formation was rapidly expanding and he received an emergent surgical airway in the intensive care unit .this emergent cricothyroidotomy was converted then to a formal tracheostomy .during his subsequent hospital course , he had an additional chf exacerbation .he was medically managed and eventually his tracheostomy was decannulated .however , just prior to admission to mass. eye & ear infirmary he had another acute decompensation with chf exacerbation .this necessitated emergent intubation .with ekg changes consistent with myocardial infarction , he was transferred to the mass. eye & ear infirmary for further management .past medical history :1. diabetes type 2 treated with oral medication .2. cerebrovascular disease , status post left carotid endarterectomy in 2008 .3. status post right cerebrovascular accident in 2009 with residual left-sided weakness .4. status post right carotid endarterectomy on 2014-02-13 .5. fall from standing on 2014-01-29 with resultant displaced radial fracture which was reduced , closed , and casted .6. hypertension .7. coronary artery disease .no history of catheterization prior to admission to the saint vincent hospital .8. chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine of 2.0 to 2.7.medications on transfer the stillman infirmary :1. lovenox 1 mg per kilogram subcutaneously b.i.d.2. aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.3. lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.4. lansoprazole 30 mg p.o. q.d.5. regular insulin sliding scale .6. captopril 6.25 mg q.i.d.7. lasix drip at 2 per hour .8. versed drip .9. tpn .physical examination on admission :this is a gentleman who is intubated , comfortable , with minimal sedation .he was afebrile with a temperature of 99.1 .his pulse was in the 70s , blood pressure 119/58 .he was breathing 12 per minute and saturating 98% .his cvp is ranging from 07-27 .he was intubated and has a nasogastric tube .his neck has a well-healed right carotid endarterectomy scar .there is also a well-healing tracheostomy scar .the lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally .the heart was regular with an s1 and s2 .the abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended with normoactive bowel sounds .the extremities were without edema .the left arm was in a cast .hospital course :mr. knueppel was admitted to the ccu at the mass. eye & ear infirmary .upon admission , he was treated for his pneumonia .he was medically managed for chf and underwent a cardiac catheterization on 2014-03-06 .his catheterization revealed 70% stenosis of the distal left main coronary artery , 90% stenosis of the lad , 80% stenosis of the circumflex , 90% stenosis of om2 and a proximally occluded right coronary artery .after reviewing cardiac catheterization data , a consultation was made with cardiothoracic surgery who deemed that he was a good candidate for coronary artery bypass grafting .over the ensuing days , mr. nina chf was managed by the ccu team and he received treatment for what was now determined to be a klebsiella pneumonia .he was treated with a full course of zosyn .on 2014-03-11 , mr. knueppel went to the operating room with dr. streeter .he underwent a coronary artery bypass graft of four vessels .he had a saphenous vein graft to his lad and diagonal in a sequential fashion , saphenous vein graft to his pda and a saphenous vein graft to his om .the procedure was performed by dr. streeter and assisted by dr . .....................the patient tolerated the procedure well without complication and was transferred to the cardiacsurgery recovery unit without complication .please see the previously dictated operative note for more details .mr. knueppel had a long postoperative course .his postoperative course was complicated by hypertension which was managed medically .during his postoperative course , he did not suffer from any arrhythmias nor did he have any episode of hypotension .at the time of discharge , he was on a stable antihypertensive regimen appropriate for someone with a decreased ejection fraction .mr. knueppel had had a long protracted period of intubation prior to the operation .the status of mr. nina pulmonary system necessitated a prolonged postoperative intubation .after a very slow wean from ventilatory support , mr. knueppel was successfully extubated on postoperative day number nine .he continued to be very tenuous from a pulmonary point of view and required frequent chest pt .for this reason , mr. knueppel was kept in the intensive care unit where very close monitoring could be performed .in addition , he had chest pt performed at very regular intervals by the icu staff .his pulmonary status was so tenuous that we were unable to transfer him to the regular patient care floor during his hospitalization .mr. knueppel had an emergent cricothyroidotomy followed by a formal tracheostomy at the outside hospital .there is much scarring surrounding his larynx .such a situation frequently makes it very difficult to swallow without aspirating .as is expected , mr. knueppel failed a swallowing study early on in his boston regional medical centerr hospital course .the study was repeated and yet again mr. knueppel was unable to swallow without evidence of aspiration .after a prolonged period of being fed via nasogastric tube , mr. knueppel finally had a formal percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube placed in the intensive care unit .this was performed on 2014-04-01 , postoperative day number 21 .this procedure was performed by dr. kevin taussig and assisted by dr. carla solan .the procedure was performed under endoscopic guidance in the intensive care unit without complication .please see the previously dictated operative note for more details .mr. knueppel robertson a distal radius fracture prior to arriving to the hospital .this injury had been reduced and casted at the outside institution .postoperatively , there was much edema associated in the postoperative course from coronary artery bypass grafting .his cast was removed by the orthopedic service in anticipation of this edema and to avoid compartment syndrome .the cast was replaced by a plaster splint .mr. knueppel should follow-up with his orthopedic surgeon in the worcester state hospital for reassessment of his injury and possible removal of the splint .by postoperative day number 23 , mr. nina pulmonary status was deemed sufficiently stable .his hypertension was well controlled and he was tolerating tube feeds .at this point , he was ready to be discharged to rehabilitation .discharge diagnosis :1. coronary artery disease , status post coronary artery bypass graft , four vessels .2. congestive heart failure .3. klebsiella pneumonia .4. failed swallow study status post percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube placement .5. central line culture positive for coagulase - negative staphylococcus aureus , status post a 14 day treatment with vancomycin and removal of the line .medications on discharge :1. methylphenidate 5 mg p.o. q.d.2. lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.3. captopril 50 mg p.o. t.i.d.4. glyburide 10 mg p.o. b.i.d.5. miconazole powder 2% , apply q.i.d. p.r.n.6. paxil 20 mg p.o. q.d.7. albuterol nebulizer solution one nebulizer q. four hours .8. metoprolol 100 mg p.o. t.i.d.9. heparin 5,000 units subcutaneously q. 12 hours .10. amlodipine 5 mg p.o. b.i.d.11. percocet one to two tablets p.o. q. four hours p.r.n. pain .12. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.13. aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.14. tube feedings ; mr. knueppel is to be discharged on tube feeds , promote , with fiber full-strength at 80 cc per hour around the clock .his peg tube should be flushed with 30 cc of water after every use .activity :mr. nina activity is ad lib .he is also to be strict n.p.o.he should be n.p.o. until he has a repeat swallow evaluation which demonstrates his ability to swallow without aspiration .follow-up :the patient will follow-up with dr. streeter in his office in four to six weeks .the patient should follow-up with his primary care physician within one week .the patient should follow-up with his orthopedic surgeon at the next convenient time to determine the length of duration of his casting .condition on discharge :stable .physical examination on discharge :mr. knueppel is afebrile with a temperature of 97.1 , pulse 77 , sinus rhythm .his blood pressure was 142/68 , breathing 21 breaths per minute , 94% on 2 liters nasal cannula .his pupils were equal , round , and reactive .extraocular muscles intact .his head was normocephalic , atraumatic .the lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally .the heart revealed a regular rate and rhythm .the abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended .he had a peg tube in his left upper quadrant .the site was clean and dry .there was no evidence of necrosis , erythema or exudate at the site .the extremities were warm and well perfuse .there was trace edema in both lower extremities .his right lower extremity has ecchymosis related to a saphenectomy site .this ecchymosis is much improved from previous examinations .there was no increased warmth over this area nor is there any exudate from his wounds .all of his wounds including sternotomy wound were clean , dry , and intact .timothy m geibel , m.d. 92-534dictated by : melinda u yantis , m.d.medquist36d : 2014-04-04 02:23t : 2014-04-04 15:35job # : 79430signed electronically by : dr. timothy b. chew on : tue 2014-06-03 4:10 pm( end of report )