0488076admission date :2015-07-12discharge date :2015-07-19date of birth :1970-05-06sex :fservice :history of present illness :the patient is a 48 - year-old woman who was transferred from shaugnessy-kaplan rehab hospital .the patient originally presented to her pcp approximately one week prior to admission here with increasing cough , dyspnea and fatigue .she was given a z-pak for treatment along with albuterol .despite this , she continued to worsen and became febrile .so , she was admitted to shaugnessy-kaplan rehab hospital on 2015-07-10 .at the hospital , she was started on rocephin and levaquin for a right lower lobe pneumonia seen on chest x-ray .she continued to have increasing respiratory distress with hypoxia .she was also significantly tachypneic .at this time , repeat chest x-ray showed bilateral diffuse infiltrates consistent with ards .the patient was intubated and then transferred to hahnemann general hospital cmed .past medical history :hypothyroidism .depression .anxiety disorder .medications :1. levoxyl 112 mcg q.d.2. prozac .3. codeine for cough .allergies :no known drug allergies .social history :the patient is unemployed .she smokes approximately one pack per day .she drinks alcohol socially .physical examination :on admission , vital signs:temperature 101.4 , blood pressure 101/62 , pulse 80 , respiratory rate 19 on a ventilator with settings of assist control at 500/12 and a peep of 5 .general :the patient is intubated and sedated , but easily arousable .heent :pupils equally round and reactive to light .sclerae are anicteric .et tube is in place .neck :soft and supple .cardiovascular :normal .chest :faint scattered wheezes bilaterally .abdomen :benign .extremities :warm with good distal pulses .there is no edema .neurologic :able to follow simple commands .laboratory data :labs on admission from outside hospital , cbc notable for a white count of 21.9 with hematocrit of 36.3 and normal platelets .chem-7 notable for potassium of 3.2 and bicarbonate of 30 .lfts show an elevated alt of 52 and ast of 101 with normal alkaline phosphatase and total bilirubin .latest arterial blood gas with ph of 7.45 , pco2 43 and po2 155 on 100 percent oxygen via ventilator .radiographic studies :chest x-ray shows right middle lobe , right lower lobe , and left lower lobe infiltrates .ekg shows normal sinus rhythm at 70 beats per minute with normal axis and intervals , borderline lvh .summary of hospital course :respiratory :on admission , the patient had what appeared to be acute respiratory distress syndrome secondary to community - acquired pneumonia .she was maintained on a ventilator and ventilated according to ardsnet protocol .for antibiotic coverage of her pneumonia , she was started on levaquin , ceftriaxone , and vancomycin .over the next two days after admission , the patient 's vent settings were gradually weaned , and she was extubated two days after being transferred to this hospital .after extubation , the patient was oxygenating well on face mask .she did continue to have a persistent fairly severe cough ; however , her cough was weak due to abdominal muscle pain from repeated coughing .the cough was mostly nonproductive .the patient was breathing comfortably .as there was no identified bacterial pathogen on any cultures , the patient was continued on the triple antibiotics for first several days of the hospitalization .she was also on round-the-clock atrovent and albuterol nebulizers .once the patient was transferred out of the icu and after extubation , the antibiotics were gradually narrowed .the vancomycin and levaquin were discontinued after approximately four days in the hospital .the ceftriaxone was discontinued after four days in the hospital , and the patient was to continue on levaquin .the patient had gradual improvement in her oxygenation .pain control :the patient had fairly significant abdominal pain secondary to persistent cough .she was started on a regimen of ms contin with oxycodone for breakthrough pain .this helped her somewhat though she has continued to have difficulty coughing due to the pain .tylenol and ibuprofen were also added for better control .transaminitis :the patient was noted to have mild transaminitis on admission .however , this was felt to be due to her significant infection .this should continue to be followed as an outpatient to assure that it returns back to normal .anemia :the patient 's reticulocyte count showed inadequate production .iron studies showed a mixed picture with decreased iron and decreased iron to tibc ratio suggestive of iron-deficiency anemia , but also normal to high mcv .b12 was noted to be low and the patient was given an injection of im b12 while in the hospital .she was also started on iron supplementation .hypothyroidism :the patient was continued on synthroid for her chronic hypothyroidism .discharge status :the patient was discharged home with services .discharge condition :good .discharge diagnoses :community-acquired pneumonia .acute respiratory distress syndrome .iron-deficiency anemia .hypothyroidism .discharge medications :1. levothyroxine 75 mcg q.d.2. prozac 40 mg q.d.3. levaquin 500 mg q.d. for 7 days after discharge .4. guaifenesin syrup p.r.n. cough .5. oxycodone 10 mg q.4 h. p.r.n. for pain .6. colace 100 mg b.i.d.7. ms contin 30 mg b.i.d.8. ibuprofen 800 mg q.8 h .9. albuterol 1 to 2 puffs q.6 h. p.r.n.10. atrovent 1 puff q.6 h. p.r.n.discharge instructions :follow-up plans :the patient was instructed to call her pcp , dr. ruby godfrey , to follow up the week of discharge .she is also to call her pcp if she has increasing shortness of breath or fevers .richard wanita , washington 30778dictated by : christopher qx morse , m.d.medquist36d : 2015-09-14 17:19:48t : 2015-09-15 00:27:21job # : 18355signed electronically by : dr. phillip garcia on : wed 2015-09-16 5:10 pm( end of report )