796362050 | bh | 34715907 | | 886814 | 3/11/1991 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 3/11/1991 report status: signeddischarge date: 7/30/1992diagnoses: status post cardiac transplant on 26 of augustaortic dissection.non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.history of tobacco abuse in the past.hepatitis-c antibody positive.history of present illness: the patient was a 51 year oldgentleman with a history of coronaryartery disease with myocardial infarction in 1977 , status postcoronary artery bypass grafting in 1977 , and myocardial infarctionin 1985 , with redo coronary artery bypass grafting at oua medical center , complicated by cardiogenic shock , treated with anintra-aortic balloon pump in 1985. since 24 of november , the patientreported recurrent congestive heart failure with chest pain and avariable bundle branch block requiring pacer placement with a dddpacer in 1990. he had an electrophysiologic study at the time ,which was negative for ventricular tachycardia. in 1 of january , thepatient reported to hobrook medical center with severe congestive heartfailure and was transferred to mi hospital aftertreatment for transplant evaluation. at tiesi hospital medical center on 3 of march , the patient's work-up included an exercisetolerance test with oxygen uptake of 11.1 milliliters per kilogramper minute , and a cardiac catheterization showing an essentiallyopen left internal mammary artery with saphenous vein grafts andoccluded native vessels. the right atrial pressure was 10 ,pulmonary artery pressure 54/28/30 , pulmonary capillary wedgepressure 36 , cardiac output 3.6 , cardiac index 2 , pvr 44 , svr 1440.the echocardiogram revealed severely decreased ejection of around15% with 2+ mitral regurgitation. other issues included a positivetobacco history in the past with a moderately decreased fev-1 of2.2 , and also hepatitis-c antibody positivity. the patient wenthome after evaluation for 2 weeks and did well without fever orchills. he did have some constipation. for 2 days , he had someincreased cough when lying down similar to his previous congestiveheart failure. the patient was readmitted on the night prior totransplantation on 9 of september , for increasing congestive heartfailure and dobutamine treatment. past medical history was asstated above. allergies were no known drug allergies. socialhistory revealed a 25-pack-year history of tobacco , none since1977. he has 4 children , married. medications on admission ontransfer included digoxin .25 milligrams by mouth each day , pepcid20 milligrams by mouth twice a day , captopril 25 milligrams bymouth 3 times a day , lasix 80 milligrams by mouth twice a day ,ecotrin 1 by mouth each day , coumadin , dobutamine drip.physical examination: the patient was a somewhat cachectic male ,comfortable with oxygen. head , eyes , ears ,nose and throat examination was benign. neck was supple withoutadenopathy. lungs were clear at the tops with bibasilar crackles.cardiovascular examination was notable for s1 , s2 and s3 , no s4 ,murmur or rub. abdominal examination was benign. extremitiesshowed no edema. rectal examination revealed guaiac negativestool , no mass.laboratory examination: at the time of admission , laboratoryvalues were essentially normal , except forhyperglycemia , mildly increased liver function tests and creatinine1.1. on admission , blood urea nitrogen was 18 , creatinine .9 ,glucose 176 , sodium 137 , potassium 4.1 , prothrombin time 13.1 ,partial thromboplastin time 29 , calcium 8.5 , albumin 3.7 , magnesium2 , alt 17 , alkaline phosphatase 155 , total bilirubin 1.1.urinalysis was negative. hematocrit was 38.8 , platelets 199 , 000 ,white blood cell count 8.3. the electrocardiogram revealed avpacing at 90. chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly with a pacer withthe wires in the right ventricle. an echocardiogram obtained priorto transplantation revealed right atrial pressure 10 , pulmonaryartery 54/28/38 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure 36 , cardiacoutput 3.6 , cardiac index 2 , pvr 44 , svr 1440 , ejection fraction15% , 2+ mitral regurgitation.hospital course: the patient was taken to the operating room on15 of november , and received an orthotopic hearttransplant. this was complicated by a descending aortic dissectionfrom the iliac to the left subclavian vein secondary to femoralcatheterization , because the patient had had 2 previous bypassesand would not have tolerated aortic bypass. the patient did wellpostoperatively and was placed on cyclosporine-a and prednisone.the patient was weaned off the ventilator and dobutamine anddiuresed without difficulty. of note , one of the two preoperativeblood cultures grew out clostridium perfringens. three subsequentblood cultures were negative , however. an infectious diseaseservice consultation was obtained , and it was felt that intravenouspenicillin for 10 to 14 days , 30 million units every 4 hours , wouldbe warranted given the patient's underlying immunosuppression. thepatient underwent right ventricular biopsies according to theprotocol , and there was no evidence of rejection on any biopsies.the patient underwent magnetic resonance imaging evaluation of theaortic dissection on 11 of february , and then follow-up on 10 of march theserevealed a type-b dissection from the left iliac to the subclavian.the ascending aorta was not involved. there was flow in both thetrue and false lumen on both tests. the renal , sma and ciliacarteries were all intact. an echocardiogram on 11 of february , revealedgood left ventricular function , a small amount of mitralregurgitation , some increased pulmonary pressures and thedissection of the aorta. the patient underwent abdominalcomputerized tomography scan to rule out any occult source ofabscess which would be responsible for the clostridium bacteremia ,as recommended by the gastroenterology consultant. no such sourcewas found. the patient's blood pressure was initially controlledwith nifedipine 3 times a day 30 milligrams , until the patientreached the expected postoperative denervated tachycardia. afterthis point , a beta blocker in the form of atenolol 25 milligrams bymouth each day was added to decrease force on the wall of thedissection. the patient was transferred to the cardiology servicefrom the cardiothoracic surgery service on 11 of february , and did well.adjustments were made in his cyclosporine dose. he was initiallytried on some nph insulin for hyperglycemia , but eventually withthe prednisone taper had good blood sugars on glyburide 2.5milligrams by mouth each day. the goal was set for the patient'sblood pressure to be kept at all times below 140 , and this was forthe most part achieved. the patient was anemic during admission ,but postoperatively gradually his red blood cell count increased.he was started on iron sulfate to assist in his hematologicrecovery. b12 and folate levels were normal despite polys onstain. the patient's chest tube wounds were cultured during thepostoperative course and grew normal skin flora. they were packedwith wicks as necessary. the left groin lymph area drained clearfluid and persisted , but had decreased substantially prior todischarge. the patient was evaluated by the psychiatry service forsome features of hypomania on 17 of may they recommended valium 5milligrams by mouth 3 times a day to counter the steroid-inducedhypomania. physical therapy service was active in the patient'sambulation and felt comfortable that the patient would be able togo home and manage on his own.disposition: the patient was discharged to home. complicationsincluded aortic dissection type b from left iliac toleft subclavian. medications on discharge were cyclosporine-a 250milligrams by mouth twice a day , imuran 50 milligrams by mouth eachday , prednisone 25 milligrams by mouth each day , atenolol 75milligrams by mouth each day , glyburide 2.5 milligrams by moutheach day , nifedipine 30 milligrams by mouth 4 times a day ,septra-double-strength 1 by mouth every other day , nystatin 15 ccby mouth 4 times a day , iron sulfate 325 milligrams by mouth 3times a day , valium 2.5 milligrams by mouth 3 times a day.condition on discharge was stable. the patient was to follow alow-saturated fat , low-cholesterol , no-added-salt diet. he willadvance his activity as tolerated. the patient was to have avisiting nurse daily until he feels comfortable with his own care.the visiting nurse will assist in wound dressing changes , takinghis finger sticks twice a day , taking his blood pressure andnotifying physicians for blood pressure greater than 140. theywere to check differential blood pressures between right and leftarms. the patient will also receive physical therapy assistance tocontinue his progress in ambulation. the patient was to follow-upwith the cardiac transplant clinic on 28 of november , for routinefollow-up.cg507/0006stan o. puhrman , m.d. ad2 d: 5/22/92batch: 8352 report: o6076u8 t: 8/28/92dictated by: abraham t. santoscoy , m.d.cc: 1. dwain e. venecia , m.d.2. sheldon roselle , m.d.