439208147 | amc | 68446510 | | 633422 | 2/9/1996 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 5/28/1996 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/12/1996discharge diagnosis: atypical angina and coronary artery disease.history of present illness: this is a 76 year old male withincreased anginal symptoms forapproximately one month post-ptca. this patient had knownmultivessel coronary artery disease status post angioplastyadmitted with six hours of rest chest pain with non-diagnostic ekgchanges and initial troponin and ck negative. patient's riskfactors include a history of hypertension , prior history oftobacco , non-insulin dependent diabetes , his age , and sex. inapril 1995 , the patient developed his first symptoms of cardiacangina. he was admitted on 7/10/95 with chest pain at rest andminimal ekg changes. ck initially was 210 and mb was not done.patient did not rule in. on 10/23/95 , the patient underwentcardiac catheterization with elevated right atrial pressure of 39and 14 , mildly elevated , and three vessel disease with 70% proximalstenosis of his left anterior descending artery , 90% apicalstenosis with 30% stenosis of the left circumflex , and two serial95% stenoses distally of the left circumflex noted. his firstdiffuse marginal branch had 30% to 40% diffuse luminal irregularityin his right coronary artery. posterior descending artery wasnoted to have a 90% mid stenosis. systolic function was normalwith ejection fraction of 71%. on 10/23/95 , the patient had aballoon angioplasty of the proximal and 95% stenosis of his leftcircumflex artery. on 11/1/95 , the patient continued to complainof chest pressure. he underwent exercise tolerance test. he wentfive minutes and one second stopping secondary to leg fatigue witha 2 mm st segment depression. he underwent cardiac catheterizationwith angioplasty of his mid posterior descending artery with 30%residual stenosis and a small dissection of the inferior margin ofthe vessel. he was discharged home aspirin , lisinopril , atenolol ,micronase , and enoxaparin. patient was well at home until the dayof his admission when he had retrosternal chest pressure of 10/10at approximately 6 p.m. he took three sublinguals without reliefand presented to the emergency room with 5/10 chest pressure. inthe emergency room , he had some relief of his chest pressure withsublingual nitroglycerin and intravenous nitroglycerin broughtsignificant relief. he had non-diagnostic ekg changes but wasadmitted to the ccu for concern for unstable anginal pattern.past medical history: significant for c4-c5 radiculopathy withsteroid injection for pain control , inguinalhernia , and benign prostatic hypertrophy status post transurethralresection of the prostate.current medications: enteric coated aspirin 325 q.d. , lisinopril7.5 q.d. , atenolol 75 q.d. , micronase 5 q.d. ,and enoxaparin 60 mg q.12h.allergies: patient was allergic to penicillin with a rash.physical examination: on admission , patient was in no acutedistress with a heart rate of 54 , bloodpressure 114/78 , respiratory rate 18 , and saturation 97% on fourliters. on 100 micrograms of nitroglycerin and heparin , there wasno chest discomfort. heent: benign. lungs: few basilarcrackles. cardiovascular: examination showed bradycardia withii/vi systolic murmur at the left lower sternal border and apex.abdomen: benign. extremities: no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema.laboratory examination: on admission was notable for a potassiumof 3.9 , hematocrit of 37.1 , troponin of 0 ,and ck initially of 121. ekg revealed a sinus bradycardia withnormal intervals , normal axis , and no new change as compared to oldekg.hospital course: assessment was that this was basically a 76 yearold with known coronary artery disease presentingwith unstable angina with no significant troponin or ck values.given his history of recent intervention and coronary arterydisease , this appeared consistent with unstable angina. thepatient was ruled out for a myocardial infarction with his ck flatand repeat troponin of 0. he was continued on intravenous heparinand nitroglycerin in the interval amount of time until he ruled outand his aspirin therapy was decreased down to 81 with simvastatinstarted. patient received repeat catheterization on 1/9/96 whichrevealed 50% stenosis at the mid left circumflex at the pta site ,30% to 40% stenosis of the distal posterior descending artery atthe pta site , 40% proximal left anterior descending , 95% distalleft anterior descending at the apex , and 70% distal leftcircumflex giving rise to two plv branches. the plan was that thepatient would get a distal left circumflex ptca tomorrow when therewould be surgical back-up available. the patient was continued onintravenous heparin and nitroglycerin overnight without anyrecurrent chest discomfort. on 10/16/96 , the patient had ptcatimes three at the mid left circumflex 50% to 60% stenosisballooned to 30% , distal left circumflex 80% stenosis was balloonedto 30% residual , and distal left anterior descending with 90%stenosis ballooned to 20% residual. post-ptca , the patient wascontinued on heparin overnight without any recurrent chestdiscomfort. there was a issue with this patient of whether hischest discomfort given its atypical nature was cardiac in etiologyalthough he definitely had disease on angiography but he hadsignificant possibility for other etiologies as a source for hisdiscomfort such as cervical radiculopathy with left arm numbnessand occasional anterior chest discomfort which he had difficultydistinguishing from any anginal-like discomfort. he also had ahistory of gastrointestinal distress with frequent gaseousness.the patient was basically observed 24 hours after his heparin wasstopped , he was restarted on enoxaparin , and continued on aspirin ,captopril , lopressor , and simvastatin. patient did not have anyrecurrent chest discomfort in the interim observation and he wasdischarged home on a stable out-patient regimen. additionalin-house issues included that gastrointestinally , patient wascontinued on prilosec and maalox therapy for his gaseousness andgastrointestinal distress. given the crackles on examination , hehad a chest x-ray which was negative for any infiltrate and herequired some o2 supplementation initially when he presented but hewas weaned off o2 prior to discharge. as far as his diabetes , hecontinued on his out-patient micronase with b.i.d. fingerstickmonitoring which was normal. fluids , electrolyte , and nutritionwise , his potassium and magnesium were kept optimally repletedgiven his cardiac history.disposition: patient is discharged in stable condition.discharge medications: enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. ,atenolol 25 mg q.d. , micronase 5 mg q.d. ,lisinopril 2.5 mg q.d. , and sublingual nitroglycerin.follow-up: patient is to schedule a follow-up appointment with dr.rater for cardiac follow-up. the plan was thathe would call dr. hedges for follow-up.dictated by: samual c. duch , m.d. sl26attending: orlando j. sosby , m.d. jz2cz901/3039batch: 31556 index no. ekhji08n3h d: 10/25/96t: 7/6/96