846470157fih283138545917/em770717945/13/1992 12:00:00 amdischarge summaryunsigneddisreport status :unsignedadmission date :5-13-92discharge date :5-22-92history of present illness :this is a 75 year old righthanded caucasian female who was admitted to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital because of left facial droop and hand weakness after glaucoma laser surgery .she was transferred to the sas general hospital for further evaluation of some weakness in the setting of multiple medical problems .the patient had o.d. glaucoma surgery , 1400 hours , on may 12th , 1992 .soon after surgery , the patient noted her left lower face and hand were weak .she was brought to the emergency room where she was evaluated and determined to have had a cerebrovascular accident .she has absolutely no neurologic disease in past .the review of systems is negative .however , two days prior to admission , one family member noted that the patient had a transient left facial droop .a potassium three days prior to surgery was 2.8 , the level being normalized with p.o. kay ciel prior to admission .past medical history :the patient has a history of mi in 1989 , no angina before or after .she had a normal exercise thallium test in 08/89 , per ona hospital .the phone no. at the ona hospital is 337-4296 , 936 area code .# 2. history of m. kansasaii with workup by dr. screen at sas general hospital proceeding currently .# 3. history of breast cancer .in december 1990 she had a lumpectomy , from left breast , and xrt x 35 .no axillary dissection was done because she was status post mi .she received tamoxifen briefly .mammogram was normal 7/92 , and 5/92 .she is allergic to amoxicillin , having developed a rash , does not smoke , does not drink .medications on admission :dyazide one p.o. q.d. propanolol 5 mg. p.o. t.i.d. isordil 5 mg. p.o. t.i.d. glaucoma drops .physical examination :blood pressure 118/75 , pulse 88 , respirations 20 , in no acute distress .head and neck exam was unremarkable , except for the right eye being patched over .lungs were clear .breasts were unremarkable .back was nontender .heart exam :regular rate and rhythm , jugular venous pressure was normal , no carotid bruit was noted ; murmur , rub , gallop , click and ectopy were absent .abdomen was benign .rectal tone was normal , guaiac negative stool .extremities :without clubbing , cyanosis or edema or stigmata of subacute bacterial endocarditis .normal pulses were palpated .neurologic exam :the patient was alert and oriented x 4 .extensive mental status testing was normal , except for recalling only one out of three objects at five minutes .there was a touch an anosognosia .cranial nerve exam :visual fields were full o.s. , visual acuity was 20/70 o.s.pupil o.s. reacted to light .eoms with full range of movement , no nystagmus .viith cranial nerve :inferior left weak .no gag was present .otherwise normal cn &apos;s .dtrs showed a mild decrease in left biceps and brachioradialis reflexes , otherwise normal tone , symmetrical reflexes , downgoing toes .motor exam :5+ throughout , except left hand intrinsic muscles were 4+ , 3+ in the middle digits .no atrophy was noted .sensory exam showed some leftsided errors with pinprick and proprioception .cerebellar exam :finger / to/nose was with mild dysmetria , exaggerated on tracking ; rapid alternating movements normal , heel-to-shin was good with few errors .laboratory data :chest xray showed expanded lungs with biapical pulmonary opacities .ekg :left bundle branch block .urinalysis was unremarkable .bun 27 , with a creatinine of .9 , glucose was 182 , but otherwise electrolytes were normal .her admitting hematocrit was 45% , white count 7,700 , with an mcv of 92 , platelets were normal at 263,000 .albumin 2.5 .hospital course :# 1. cerebrovascular accident .the patient suffered some mild weakness which was attributed to stenosis of the distal right internal carotid artery .this was determined by head ct , head mri , head mra , carotid noninvasive studies , transcranial dopplers .the possibility of a cardiac origin was evaluated by echocardiogram and holter monitor .her echocardiogram curiously showed a normal left ventricular size and systolic function , a patent foramen ovale , with a trace right to left shunt , as determined by bubble study , trace mr was present .previous echoes have shown mvp at the ona hospital .her holter showed up to 12 beats of svt , but was otherwise unremarkable .the patient had a normal b12 , negative syphilis serologies and normal thyroid function during this hospitalization .she was anticoagulated with heparin and after several days coumadin was started .her exact coumadin dose is undetermined at this point , however it looks like it will be something around 5 mg a day .her pro time and ptt have normalized at the time of discharge .she needs to be given 5 mg of coumadin tonight , 5/22/92 .in addition heparin should be started to drip on arrival at 400 units an hour .it is discontinued at the time of transport .the patient has received physical therapy and occupational therapy and her recovery is near complete .during evaluation of her neurologic status , it was determined that for several months prior to admission , the patient has been too unsteady to ambulate .on our exam she is found to have a significant amount of ataxia , especially in the midline and the exact cause of this is unknown .there are multiple possible contributions and this is where her need for careful internal medical evaluation has arisen .at the time we were to embark on this evaluation , the patient &apos;s family strongly requested that she be transferred to the sas general hospital .what follows is a summary of her medical problems and their possible relationship to her ataxia .her ataxia is likely due to some cerebellar function , though this is not certain .moreover her mri did not show any discrete cerebellar lesions .our leading theory at this point is that her cerebellar dysfunction relates to perineoplastic syndrome , relating to her history of breast ca .as i mentioned above , her evaluation was limited by her cardiologic status at the time .while mammogram and ca-15.3 and breast exam are all normal , the idea of a perineoplastic syndrome with or without concomitant breast ca has reared its head .two possible markers are anti-hu syndrome and anti-yo antibody .these tests were sent on the 18th and are pending at the time of discharge .the results can be obtained by paging me , do a. joasscchird , m.d. at 834-364-2251 .i will be happy to furnish the results .the patient has a history of mi in 1989 .echocardiogram no longer shows wall motion abnormalities .ekg , when the patient goes out of left bundle branch block transiently shows an anterolateral q/wave inversion .we would like to discontinue her isordil to improve upon some orthostatic hypotension , but we are not certain whether her heart will tolerate this .persantine thallium is scheduled at this time , but is yet to be performed .the patient has a history of orthostatic hypotension x many years .it has been evaluated in the past without success .during her hospitalization , we confirmed the presence of this , even when she was hydrated with saline , to a fractional excretion of sodium of 2% .studies of her autonomic system did not document any dysautonomia .studies of skin galvanic conduction were normal and her rr interval evaluation was not abnormal .this is a chronic problem but may be contributing to her current weakness and inability to walk .florinef is to be considered , however stopping the isordil is one goal .the patient has a history of bronchiectasis from a childhood pneumonia .in addition there is a distant history of m. kansasaii infection .this has been evaluated by dr. screen at sas general hospital and probably relates to her lung xray .ct at the ona hospital in 1989 showed similar findings .a chest ct was to be performed and may be yielding .a ppd was placed and is to be read on saturday , 4 26th .the left volar forearm has the ppd just proximal to the wrist crease and a candida albicans placed just distal to the antecubital fossa .the patient has a history of deep venous thrombosis in 1990 , for which she received 6 months of coumadin .dopplers of her lower extremities were negative on this admission .it is doubtful that she has chronic pe , but this is one consideration .it is likely that she has pulmonary hypertension from her lung disease , and so this is a consideration .the patient had mild hyponatremia during this hospitalization with a sodium as low as 131 .we think this is likely due to an siadh as she is euvolemic .this can be evaluated further and is not a problem at this time .the patient has glaucoma .her medications are as listed below .her ophthalmologist is aware of transfer .his name is ettrent can and he can be reached at 678-233-5033 , b 549 .doctors discharge orders :propanolol 5 mg. p.o. t.i.d. [ hold for sbp less than 110 ] , isosorbide 5 mg. p.o. t.i.d. , hold for sbp less than 110 , colace 100 mg. p.o. b.i.d. pilocarpine 4% one drop q.i.d. o.d. pilocarpine 2% one drop b.i.d. o.s. betasan 0.5% one drop b.i.d. o.d. .bacitracin ointment one drop o.d. q.h.s. ciprofloxacin 500 mg. one p.o. b.i.d. x four more days [ until 5/25/92 ] , for recently discovered siderobacter uti .coumadin 5 mg. p.o. q.h.s.she needs her dose on 5/22/92 .heparin i.v. drip at 400 units per hour , on her arrival .in addition the patient requires occupational therapy and physical therapy .discharge diagnosis :amoxicillin rash .small stroke , nearly recovered , likely embolic from carotid artery .glaucoma , under therapy , status post laser surgery o.d.orthostatic hypotension .ataxia with gait abnormality .history of breast cancer .history of atypical mycobacterial colonization .history of dvt .hyponatremia .coronary artery disease with mi in 1989 .do joasscchird , m.d.tr :zg / bmotdd :5-22-92td :05/22/92cc :mavic word , m.d. and tomedankell ear m.d. , dept of neurology .lyna can , m.d. division of pulmonary medicine , jeanes clinic , apem and ettrent can , c / o valtawnprinceel community memorial hospital