admission date : 3-26-93 discharge date : 4-3-93 history of present illness : the patient is a 73 year old female who was transferred for cardiac catheterization after ventricular fibrillation arrest in the setting of an acute inferior myocardial infarction and a urinary tract infection . the patient was admitted on 3-16-93 to diy hospital for an e. coli urinary tract infection . the patient was readmitted on 3-20-93 because of fever , chills and a sudden onset of ventricular fibrillation arrest , successfully cardioverted back to rapid atrial fibrillation and finally to sinus rhythm , where an electrocardiogram then showed st elevation in inferior leads . peak cpk was 2494 with 18% mb 's . she required intubation for mild to moderate congestive heart failure , treated with diuretics , intravenous nitroglycerin and heparin . she had post-infarction angina , was transferred here for angiography and possible percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty . hospital course : on 3-27-93 , patient underwent cardiac catheterization , coronary and left ventricular angiography without complications . review of these angiograms demonstrated a dominant right coronary artery with a focal 50% stenosis in the mid-portion . the left main coronary artery was clear . the left anterior descending had moderate plaques with a 50% proximal stenosis of the right anterior oblique caudal view . the proximal diagonal d1 had a 50% stenosis . the circumflex had a long 30% stenosis proximally and an 80% stenosis at the origin of the second major marginal artery . the left ventricular angiogram showed akinesis of the posterobasal walls , severe hypokinesis of the diaphragmatic wall and trace mitral regurgitation . the patient was maintained on heparin anticoagulation . an exercise tolerance test with thallium was to be performed in order to assess myocardial viability in the infarct zone . the right coronary artery lesion was complex and there was severe stenosis in the obtuse marginal 1 . the patient had no further angina . on 4-2-93 , she underwent a persantine thallium study . this showed no diagnostic electrocardiogram changes for ischemia and no angina pectoris . the thallium images showed a large region of persistently reduced blood flow involving the apex and inferoposterior segments of the left ventricular wall . this was consistent with scar . there was no definite perfusion abnormality in the circumflex zone . in view of these findings , it was elected to discharge her on her present medical program . the patient is to return to the follow up care of dr. ko kollciem at the diy hospital . chpo e. jescobea , m.d. tr : sq / bmot dd : 06-13-93 td : 06/15/93 cc : dr. ko kollciem , retchard healthcare to dr. wall