record #269404211892555 | agh | 34558636 | | 1187944 | 8/14/2006 12:00:00 am | coronary artery disease | signed | dis | admission date: 11/13/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/8/2006attending: shelor , kendrick m.d.service:cardiac surgery service.admitting diagnoses:coronary artery disease and aortic stenosis.history of present illness:this is a 79-year-old male status post stenting of the pda andptca , radioablation and stenting of his lad in 2000. he hadrecurrent ischemic symptoms four months later and cardiaccatheterization showed restenosis of his lad with an 80% lesionat d3. he had brachytherapy and repeat ptca. since then , he hasdone well but he had increasing dyspnea from cr. exercisethallium test , which showed increasing lv filling pressuresduring exercise and inferior apical ischemia. he was admittedfor cardiac catheterization , which was done on 6/14/06 and thepatient was found to have a 45% proximal right coronary arterydisease , 50% distal left main disease , and 95% mid lad disease.past medical history:significant for hypertension , dyslipidemia , and chest radiation ,prostate cancer , osteoporosis , and urinary incontinence.hospital course:he was admitted , made ready for surgery. he was taken to theoperating room on 10/3/06. at which time , he underwent a cabgx3 with a lima to the lad , a saphenous vein graft to the pda anda saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal. the patient'saortic valve was only found to be mildly stenotic with the valvearea of 1.4 and a peak gradient of 30. this was discussed withhis cardiologist , dr. cletus columbres and a combined decision was madenot to replace the aortic valve at this time. the patient'simmediate postoperative course was uncomplicated. he wastransferred to the intensive care unit in a stable fashion. hewas found to have an inferior lateral ischemia on ekg , therefore ,he was taken to the cath lab , all grafts were found to be patentand there was resolution of ischemia. he was weaned off his pressors and hewas extubated.he was found to be hemodynamicallystable. he was started on lopressor and gentle diuresis. onpostoperative day #3 , we titrated up his lopressor and started onhis norvasc and transferred him to the step-down unit. onpostoperative day #4 , he was slightly tachycardic with ambulationand we titrated up on his beta-blockers. pa and chest x-ray lookgood. physical therapy was consulted to decide whether thepatient would benefit from rehabilitation. he was started onempiric levofloxacin for questionable pneumonia. he was foundsuitable for discharge on postoperative day #5 , however , thepatient had isolated temperature and his white count was found tobe trending and he was hypertensive. the patient was found tohave a positive blood culture from when he had been in theintensive care unit and he was continued on levofloxacin. thepatient was discovered to have left leg cellulitis at the kneewhere his saphenous vein graft was harvested from. he wasstarted on vancomycin. this area continued to be watched whilethe patient remained on iv antibiotics. he was afebrile. hiswhite blood cell count was 12. the patient remained stable buthe continued to have a white count and leftleg ultrasound finally done on postoperative day #10 , revealed afluid collection above the knee to the mid calf mostly behind hisknee where the area of erythema was and his white blood cellcount went up to 15. therefore , on 10/28/06 , the patient wastaken to the operating room , at which time , he underwent adrainage and irrigation of his left lower extremity saphenousvein donor site , moderate amount of fluid were expressed , andcultures were taken. the patient was transferred back to thestep-down unit after this procedure. please see the continuingdictation done by valentin krull for the rest of the patient'shospital course and discharge status.escription document: 4-5978600 emssten teldictated by: frenkel , emilattending: finley , ryandictation id 5169133d: 10/5/06t: 10/5/06[report_end]