record #244793156870705 | hhcc | 77099607 | | 767296 | 5/17/1993 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 2/24/1993 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/6/1993history of present illness: the patient is a 65 year old womanwith a history of coronary arterydisease , presenting with progressive symptoms for cardiaccatheterization. her cardiac history began in 27 of october , when shepresented with new substernal chest pain. she ruled in for anon-q-wave myocardial infarction , was treated with medical therapyand did well , until 22 of may , when she had progressive exertional chestheaviness and shortness of breath. an exercise tolerance test waspositive at that time , and echocardiogram showed good leftventricular function. she had a cardiac catheterization whichshowed a 90% left anterior descending , 75% first diagonal , 75%second diagonal. the cardiac catheterization was complicated byfoot cellulitis , sepsis and deep vein thrombosis and she was in andout of the hospital for several months recovering. given this , shewas hesitant to undergo further procedures and was treated withmedical therapy. the patient did fairly well with stable anginaand shortness of breath , until 1 year prior to admission when shehad slowly progressive increase in her chest heaviness andshortness of breath , limiting her activities. her anginal patternhas not changed recently in a significant manner , but over the lastseveral months her pain has been extremely limiting to heractivities , and thus she presented for cardiac catheterization anda question of revascularization. the patient has stable 2-pilloworthopnea , she has claudication with a 10-minute walk relieved withrest. the patient denied paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. her chestpain is not associated with diaphoresis , nausea , vomiting ,radiation , or syncope. it is associated with upper chestheaviness , shortness of breath and warmth in the chest and neck.past medical history was significant for coronary artery disease asabove , diabetes times 20 years on insulin for the last 10 years ,complicated by neuropathy and retinopathy , hypertension ,hypercholesterolemia , breast cancer status post left mastectomy andradiation therapy in 1979 , peripheral vascular disease ,musculoskeletal pain syndrome , she had a positive ana previously onwork-up , but her symptoms are fluctuant and easily controlled.history also included deep vein thrombosis during her previouscardiac catheterization , cataracts , status post cholecystectomy andappendectomy. medications on admission were nifedipine-xl 60milligrams each day , inderal 20 milligrams by mouth 3 times a day ,insulin 45 units of nph each morning , sublingual trinitroglycerinas needed. family history was negative for coronary artery diseaseand diabetes. allergies were no known drug allergies. socialhistory revealed the patient lives with her daughter in cu i , she does not smoke nor drink.physical examination: on admission , she was in no apparentdistress. vital signs were within normallimits. head and neck examination was unremarkable. lungs wereclear to auscultation. cardiac examination revealed regular rateand rhythm with a i/vi systolic ejection murmur , no s3 , no s4 , nojugular venous distension. abdominal examination was nontender ,nondistended , no hepatosplenomegaly , normoactive bowel sounds , nomasses. extremities showed no clubbing , cyanosis or edema.neurologic examination was within normal limits.laboratory examination: on admission , platelets were 318 , 000 ,hematocrit 41.7 , white count within normallimits , prothrombin time 11.2 , partial thromboplastin time 31.1 ,electrolytes were unremarkable. chest x-ray showed no infiltratesor effusions. the electrocardiogram had normal sinus rhythm at 70with axis 0 , intervals within normal limits , left atrialenlargement , t-wave inversion in iii , but no acute st-t wavechanges.hospital course: the patient was admitted and underwent cardiaccatheterization which showed a 90% proximal leftanterior descending stenosis , 70% mid-left anterior descending , 90%first diagonal , 70% second diagonal and 100% obtuse marginal branchstenosis. the right coronary artery was not cannulated , but lookednormal with what dye could be injected. a percutaneoustransluminal coronary angioplasty was planned the following day fordilatation of her serial left anterior descending lesions , however ,the patient had significant bleeding the night before , when arisingafter her cardiac catheterization and the decision was made to waituntil over the weekend to do the percutaneous transluminal coronaryangioplasty. on monday , the patient underwent percutaneoustransluminal coronary angioplasty with successful dilatation of theserial left anterior descending lesions , both down to 30% , and didwell. sheaths were removed the next day and the patient wasdischarged.disposition: the patient will be discharged to home. condition ondischarge was stable. the patient is to follow-upwith her egele hospital cardiologist. medicationson discharge were the same as her admission medications.dictated by: denis j. cichonski , m.d. attending: carlos reuben sharbono , m.d. ylandlo highwaycm531/5511batch: 8705 index no. phbeobuqx marchmarch[report_end]