693630151 | sghc | 56346849 | | 5003552 | 10/30/2005 12:00:00 am | altered mental status | signed | dis | admission date: 4/25/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/10/2005attending: kizzie , gonzalo alphonso mdservice: general medical service.principal diagnosis: altered mental status and dyspnea.list of problems: coronary artery disease status post stenting ,congestive heart failure and head and neck squamous cellcarcinoma.history of present illness: mr. barbieri is a 70-year-old manwith coronary artery disease status post stenting in september of thisyear , congestive heart failure and head and neck squamous cellcarcinoma treated with chemotherapy and radiation therapy earlierthis year , presenting with a change in mental status and dyspnea.after his stents in september of this year , he went to the cardiacrehab and then home where he was mostly in bed on tube feeds.his methadone dose ( for pain control ) was increased from 2.5b.i.d. to 4. in the morning and 5 in the evening and he wasnoticed to have increased lethargy. so , he self discontinued hismethadone for two days. he also had increased cough and tansputum. of note , he just completed 14-day course of vancomycin ,cefpodoxime and flagyl for aspiration pneumonia. he also has ag-tube for failed speech and swallow test previously. in theemergency room , he received vancomycin , levofloxacin and flagyl.he had no other complaints on review of system.past medical history: coronary artery disease status post threestents in january of 2005 for an nstemi , right hip placement. hehad a recent aspiration pneumonia , discharged from the healtten hospital on4/30/05 . he has type 2 diabetes , left carotid endarterectomy ,hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , congestive heart failure withmost recent ejection fraction of 20% and squamous cell carcinomaoriginally treated in 1989 in the head and neck and relapsed in2005. he is status post carbotaxol and radiation therapy.allergies: he has no known drug allergies.medications: include ecasa 325 daily , plavix 75 daily , metformin850 twice a day , zocor 40 mg once a day , paroxetine 2.5 mg once aday , atenolol 25 mg once a day , methadone 5 mg twice a day ,zofran p.r.n. , lasix 20 once a day , lisinopril 20 mg p.o. once aday , pyridoxine 5 mg once a day.family and social history: his father died of an mi. he livesin nah tonco ette he smokes half a pack per day for unknownnumber of years.physical exam: he was afebrile. his heart rate was 62 , bloodpressure 110/60 , breathing at 20 breaths per minute with an o2saturation of 97%. he appeared tired with dry mucous membranes.he had diffuse rhonchi on his chest exam. he had a 2/6 systolicmurmur heard best at the apex with a regular rate and rhythm.his abdomen was soft and nontender with his g-tube site clean.his extremities were warm. he was alert and oriented x3 oninitial exam but this waxed and waned during his inpatient stay.pertinent labs: include glucose originally of 429 brought downwith insulin to 85 , cardiac enzymes which were negative , a whitecount of 17.3 and hematocrit of 31.2 , but his baseline is in the30s. chest x-ray on admission showed a right lower lobeill-defined opacity concerned for atelectasis versus pneumonia.a head ct showed no acute intracranial abnormality. ekg showednormal sinus rhythm with a borderline qt interval of 490 , leftventricular hypertrophy and deep t-wave inversions in the lateralleads but the same as previous ekgs.hospital course: this is a 70-year-old man with multiple medicalproblems including cad , chf and cancer with head and neckpresenting with change in mental status possibly due to hismethadone dosage versus infectious etiology namely pneumonia.hyperglycemia at admission may have been contributory.pulmonary: blood cultures were negative for growth. he wasinitially placed on cefotaxime and flagyl and was changed to p.o.meds , per g-tube meds flagyl and cefpodoxime. he was continuedon his albuterol nebulizer , atrovent and a repeat chest x-rayafter intravenous fluids revealed slight improvement. he , fromthe respiratory standpoint , gradually improved with markedincrease in activity and alertness by the day of discharge.neuro and psych: his change in mental status was thought to bedue in large part to his methadone changes in dose. he was takenoff the methadone and was eventually placed on zyprexa 2.5 mg atnight and 2.5 mg at noon. he did wax and wane in terms of hisorientation sometimes thinking he was not at the hospital but healways had the correct date , correct season and knew generallywhat the current events at that time.cardiovascularly , he was diuresed gently but otherwise has nochange in status.palliative care: palliative care made numerous recommendationsthat we followed , one was to treat with zyprexa 2.5 mg at nightand at noon to stabilize his mental status fluctuations. thiscame with uncertain effect as at discharge but overall hisfunctionality had improved and the amount of time he was awareand communicative was overall lengthened. we also started him onfluconazole iv and changed per g-tube upon discharge fortreatment of oral thrush.endocrine: he was placed on regular insulin sliding scale whileon his tube feeds. we also added insulin nph standing order for8 units at morning.code status: the possibility of dnr/dni was discussed at lengthwith the patient and with his family and they repeatedly andultimately decided to have mr. lieber be dnr/dni at this point.they understand the ramifications of this and are comfortablewith this decision.disposition: mr. mcgown is being discharged to rehab at emplupe hospital and he will follow up with dr. taglialatela , his oncologist.following physician: fletcher valladares , mdescription document: 9-5877284 cscc: er-west vewina medical centercc: darrick stodghill m.d.medical oncology , tonbrooks rence hospitala hamdictated by: muskett , darrelattending: reding , tom abduldictation id 3492344d: 5/7/05t: 5/7/05