355567063 | bmc | 07920791 | | 101009 | 5/29/1997 12:00:00 am | peripheral vascular disease | signed | dis | admission date: 9/13/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/6/1997principal diagnosis: left femoropopliteal bypass grafting andright fifth toe amputation site splitthickness skin graftingproblems: 1 ) peripheral vascular disease2 ) hypertension3 ) type ii diabetes mellitus4 ) elevated cholesterolhistory of the present illness: this is a 49 year-old male whohas developed type ii diabetesmellitus approximately ten years ago but has been without regularmedical follow-up. he has also experienced worsening peripheralvascular disease. in this context , he was admitted to mounten memorial approximately one month ago , when on may , heunderwent debridement of diabetic foot ulcers and amputation of theright fifth toe. on october , he also underwent a rightfemoropopliteal bypass graft. he was discharged from penzale bill clinic on february , 1997 to home , followed by vna fordressing changes. he did well postoperatively; however , he beganexperiencing increasing pain in both legs over the two days priorto admission. he treated this with tylenol. he states thisglucose levels have been doing well , although he is not able tocite any numbers.past medical history: 1 ) hypertension. 2 ) peripheral vasculardisease. 3 ) type ii diabetes mellitus. 4 )elevated cholesterol.medications: medications on admission included vasotec 5milligrams q.d.; glyburide 5 milligrams q.d.allergies: no known drug allergies.social history: tobacco: two packs per day times 40 years ,presently an active smoker. alcohol: deniesalcohol intake in the last six weeks; history of previous heavyalcohol use. the patient is divorced. he currently lives with hisgirlfriend. he is currently disabled and is not working.review of systems: general: 35 pound weight loss over the pastthree years. ent: recent blurring of vision.neurological: numbness and tingling on the left foot dorsalsurface. cardiovascular: hypertension , but no known history ofcardiac events. psychiatric: admits to some depression.physical examination: this is an ill appearing , uncomfortablegentleman in mild distress on admission.vital signs: afebrile. blood pressure 130/82. pulse 84.respiratory rate 16. skin: warm and dry. there are no palpablenodes. heent: normocephalic and atraumatic. lungs: clear toauscultation throughout. heart: regular rate and rhythm. normals1/s2. abdomen: soft , nontender , with active bowel sounds.neurological: the patient is alert and oriented times three.extremities: there is no edema. there is a right groin incisionwith slight separation of the surgical wound at its most distalaspect , approximately one centimeter magnitude. pulses: poplitealpulse is by doppler only on both sides. the posterior tibial pulseis non dopplerable. the dorsalis pedis pulse is detectable withdoppler , stronger on the left than on the right. on the left foot ,there were two necrotic areas on the heel approximately 0.5centimeter in diameter. the first metatarsal joint has a 1.2centimeter wound which is dry , tender and not erythematous outsideof its margins , boggy at the distal aspect. there is a smallamount of tan exudate present at the distal wound edge. on theright foot , there is a distal lateral wound 4.6 centimeters inwidth , 3.1 centimeters in length , and 1 centimeter deep. there ispale green fluffing on the plantar edge of the wound. the rightheel has a 4.2 x 2.5 centimeter open area approximately 2-3millimeters deep in the wound bed; pink with scattered whitematerial fluffing. there is no surrounding erythema or bogginess.laboratory data: on admission , glucose was 81 , sodium 137 ,potassium 4.7 , chloride 101 , bicarbonate 26 , bunand creatinine of 18 and 0.9 respectively. ck was 145. cbc was asfollows: white blood cell count of 10 , hematocrit 43.1 , platelets425 , with a normal differential. urinalysis was notable only for1+ protein on the dip.hospital course: during admission , the patient underwent a leftfemoropopliteal bypass graft and split thicknessskin grafting to the right fifth toe amputation site , as well asdebridement of other lower extremity wounds on april .  hetolerated the procedure well and postoperatively progressed withoutcomplications. he was taken off epidural pain medications andswitched to p.o. medications and resumed a regular diet shortlyafter the operation. the debrided wounds on the right foot weretreated with xeroform dressings covered with kerlix and an acebandage. these wounds have shown signs of vascularity and healing ,and the split thickness skin graft has taken in a satisfactorymanner. the patient has begun to increase his activity with theguidance of the physical therapist , and is now moving on crutcheswith touch down weight bearing of the right foot and no weightbearing on the right side. there were no complications during thisadmission. the patient complained of some blurring in the righteye. this was followed by an ophthalmology consult , during whichit was determined that there has likely been a gradual decline inthe patient's vision due to a combination of development ofcataracts as well as peripheral vascular disease. it was felt thatthe appropriate management would be to have the patient return toophthalmology clinic on an outpatient basis.discharge medications: vasotec 5 milligrams p.o. q.d.; glyburide5 milligrams p.o. q.d.; wellbutrin 75milligrams p.o. q.d.; heparin 5 , 000 units subcutaneously b.i.d.;czi sliding scale insulin subcutaneously; ativan 1 milligram p.o.q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia; betadine topical ointment to surgical woundsite; msir 15-30 milligrams p.o. q.3-4h. p.r.n. pain; lanolinointment to the feet q.d.condition on discharge: stable.disposition: to rehabilitation facility.follow-up: 1 ) the patient will follow-up with eton medical center ataller hospital in approximately one week;appointment as indicated in the discharge instructions in thesidpro hospital and nursing home computer. 2 ) follow-up in tampa rekcare ta hospital in three weeks to start regular outpatientmedical management of the patient's medical issues. 3 )ophthalmology clinic follow-up in three weeks to address theblurring of the vision recently.estimated disability: the patient is disabled and has beenprior to admission.dictated by: barrett kammerzell , m.d.attending: omar n. cueva , m.d. bh39  jl933/4794batch: 6685 index no. l0sz2i2y1z d: 4/1/97t: 4/1/97