record #28218325114627 | tvmc | 43861883 | | 9103772 | 5/0/2006 12:00:00 am | urinary tract infection | signed | dis | admission date: 8/28/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 4/17/2006attending: venier , irwin mdinterim summarydate of discharge: to be determined.admission diagnosis: altered mental status.discharge diagnosis: altered mental status.secondary diagnoses:1. non-small cell lung cancer.2. right mca embolic stroke.3. graves' disease.4. depression.5. attention deficit disorder.6. hypertension.7. asthma.8. temporal lobe epilepsy.9. history of subclavian steal syndrome.10. urinary tract infection.history of present illness: this is a 64-year-old lady who has apast medical history of right upper lobe lung cancer , status postchemotherapy x2 cycles , as well as x-ray therapy. herchemotherapy has included vp-16 and cisplatin. she is statuspost a large right middle cerebral artery stroke in 10/22 ,status post a right carotid endarterectomy on 0/23/06 .  she hasbeen at the neot addy hospital since her last ry hospital admission. she was there for stroke rehabilitation andcompleted a ten-day course of vancomycin for a mrsa urinary tractinfection. she was found , on the day of admission , by her son tobe difficult to arouse. the patient was brought to the dalupe health systems by emergency services. the blood pressure was 66/44 , apulse of 100 , a respiratory rate that was normal and blood sugarof 133. she denied complaints of chest pain , shortness ofbreath , nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis. she denied any otherpain.past medical history:1. non-small cell lung cancer , diagnosed 7/24 , stage 3 ,present in the right upper lung , status post neoadjuvant xrt andtwo cycles of chemotherapy.2. right mc embolic stroke in 4/10 . 3. status post right carotid endarterectomy on 0/23/06 . 4. graves disease.5. depression.6. diabetes.7. hypertension.8. asthma.9. temporal lobe epilepsy.10. history of subclavian steal syndrome.past surgical history:1. bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy 30 years ago.2. history of radioactive iodine for graves' disease 30 yearsago.physical examination on admission: notable for being alert andoriented x2 , nonconversant , angry and in pain. neurological examwas notable for a left upper femoral paralysis with increaseddeep tendon reflex on the left , bilateral lower extremities with2+ achilles patellar reflexes. her heart was tachycardic , but nomurmurs , rubs or gallops. lungs were clear to auscultationexcept for bibasilar rales. her abdomen was full , nontender andnondistended. her extremities had no cyanosis or edema and had2+ dp pulses. in the emergency room , her pulse was 100 and herblood pressure was 148/60. she was somnolent. she had 1 gm ofvancomycin , magnesium and levaquin 500 mg.allergies: penicillin , for which she has a hive reaction;valproic acid , sulfa drugs. demerol causes hypotension.medications on admission: mechanical soft diet , aspirin 81 mg ,baclofen 5 mg t.i.d. , b12 1000 mg daily , iron sulfate 325 mgdaily , cymbalta 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. , neurontin 100 mg b.i.d. ,lamictal 200 mg b.i.d. , prilosec 20 daily , levothyroxine ,glucophage 500 once a day , reglan 10 once a day , niacin 500 oncea day , senna 2 tabs b.i.d. , zocor 20 mg once a day , nicodermpatch , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , lopressor 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,lidoderm 5% patch to the low back. she also had p.r.n. oftylenol , ducolox , mylanta , lactulose , seroquel 100 mg , prednisone50 mg , and dilaudid 1 mg.social history: divorced with two children. no alcohol userecently.family history: father died of a mi at 73. her mother died inher 80s of emphysema.laboratory data: the patient had a creatinine of 1 , her alt was25 , ast was 35 , her hematocrit was 33 , her white count was 6.6 ,and her platelets were 241 , 000. she had normal differential.her albumin was 3.5. her urinalysis was dark , with 3+leukoesterase , negative nitrates , greater than 200 white bloodcells per high peripheral , 2-4 red blood cells per highperipheral , 1+ bacteria. her ekg showed a sinus rhythm of 100.her left bundle branch block with a qtc of 500 , but no changecompared to baseline.her head ct showed an old right middle cerebral artery implant.hospital course: the patient was admitted for initialpresentation with somnolence and altered mental status with onehypotensive blood pressure by ems , but subsequently nohypotension in the absence of fluid resuscitation. her urineculture appeared to indicate an infection , and so she was coveredwith antibiotics initially. it was also determined that she hada significant polypharmacy and enumerable sedating medications ather rehabilitation and there was suspicion that the medicationscontributed to her initial presentation of somnolence and alteredmental status.1. infectious disease: the patient was initially treated withvancomycin for a presumed repeated mrsa uti. however , her urineculture did not grow any bacteria , it only drew out yeast. thus ,she was transitioned over to a ciprofloxacin 700 mg p.o. b.i.d.regime for a total of 12 days for a presumed urinary tractinfection.2. f/e/n: she was tolerating oral food and medications and anutrition consult was obtained. she had calorie counts whichshowed adequate intake. she did not have any other metabolicabnormality that required correction.3. cardiovascular: the patient's primary cardiovascularabnormality was a prolonged qtc which occurred in the setting ofprior use of haldol and other antipsychotics for behavioralmodification. her qtc was monitored with serial ekgs. thelongest it had reached was 530 ms. haldol was discontinued inorder to preserve the qtc. in addition , she was given someamounts of seroquel and her qtc was continued to be monitored.4. heme/oncology: the patient has a history of stage iiinon-small cell lung cancer status post xrt and chemotherapy andis followed by her outpatient oncologist , as well as theoutpatient psychosocial oncology social worker , as well as thepsychosocial oncology physician whose name is chet nave .5. neurological: the patient is status post both a large rightmca stroke , as well as a right-sided carotid endarterectomy froma previous admission. her neurological deficits are consistentwith her prior neurological deficits. specifically , they includea left-sided hemiparesis , as well as agnosia on the left side.her mental status included intermittent disorientation. she wasgenerally at her best , alert and oriented to herself , as well asher age , as well as her location in the domo ings hospital .  however , she would intermittently loose track of whereher location was and believed that she was in naimas west hospital , not inthe hospital. she was also intermittently confused. she also iscomplicated , given her histories of seizures and stroke. it wasconsidered initially that her altered mental status was due topolypharmacy. however , her sedating medications werediscontinued including her reglan was discontinued as well as herbaclofen , dilaudid and trazodone. her cymbalta was continued perthe recommendations of the psychiatry consult. the psychiatricconsultants also suggested a one-to-one sitter. at no time wasthe patient actively suicidal or homicidal. it was also laterdecided that her dilaudid would be discontinued. in addition ,her standing seroquel was made p.r.n. in addition , thepatient's family also suggested that the patient's base mentalstatus did not improve despite removing all the medications. atthis point , a neurology consult was obtained. this neurologyconsult is pending at the time of this dictation and will bereported in a later dictation. given the patient's history ofcomplex seizures and olfactory hallucinations , she was continuedon her lamictal , as well as her cymbalta , which was for herhistory of depression.6. pain: the patient's pain in her left hand existed and shewas treated with tramadol and tylenol for this pain. she couldnot specifically describe this pain.7. endocrine: the patient was maintained on novolog slidingscale for diabetes. she was also continued on a replacement doselevothyroxine for her history of graves' and a history ofradioiodine ablation. for behavioral modification , as well asfor intermittent agitation and disorientation , the patient wasmaintained on p.r.n. seroquel 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , as well aszydis 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. this was titrated from standing top.r.n. over the course of her hospitalization in order to try todecrease any sedating medications that may be altering heralertness and orientation.note: this dictation will be addended at a later date withdischarge medications , as well as further hospital course and thepatient's neurological state , as well as any follow up that is tobe planned.escription document: 1-9584080 sssten teldictated by: ochiltree , ryanattending: lamore , sergiodictation id 6454134d: 7/3/06t: 7/3/06[report_end]