615360866 | amc | 46908291 | | 456424 | 8/23/1999 12:00:00 am | pulmonary embolus | signed | dis | admission date: 5/3/1999 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/20/1999principal diagnosis: shortness of breath.problems during admission: 1 ) migraine headache.2 ) nonspecific abdominal pain.history of present illness: the patient is a 35 year old femalewho carries a diagnosis of lupus forseven years , recently discharged with a pulmonary embolism and deepvein thrombosis , on coumadin and lovenox , now returns with acomplaint of new onset chest pain and sob. previously the patient has beenstable with her sle but had started plaquenil recently. on9/28/99 she presented to her rheumatologist complaining ofintermittent leg swelling for the past year and was found to haveleft superficial femoral and gastrocnemius dvt. she was about tobegin lovenox when she mentioned that she had also experiencedoccasional pleuritic chest pain over the last five years. she then had a v/qscan which was read as intermediate probability for pe. for definitivediagnosis , a pulmonary angiogram was done on 2/28/99 showing bilateral apicalsmall pulmonary emboli.she was treated with iv heparin and was started oncoumadin to a therapeutic inr of 2.0. she also had an unremarkableechocardiogram at that time. on 2/30/99 , the patient returnedwith increasing wheezing and shortness of breath. her inr was 1.8.work up revealed an intermediate probability right-sided v/qmismatch with a probable new pe. repeat echocardiogram showed no rightheart strain. it was thought that she had had a recurrent pe inthe setting of subtherapeutic inr. le dvt was stable on the lenis.she was discharged on lovenox and coumadin to obtain a goal inr of3.0. unfortunately , two days prior to admission , the patient againnoted increased dyspnea on exertion. she has otherwise beenactive , feeling well over the past week. she denies chest pain ,leg pain , wheezing. v/q scan performed on the morning of admissionshowed new mismatched lesions at the left posterior base and rightanterior base. she notes stomach upset for the previous four days ,recently had an upper gi work up , including an egd which wasnegative by patient's report. she denies any melena , nausea ,vomiting , brppr. she has been tolerating p.o.past medical history: 1 ) sle x 7 years , on plaquenil recently.2 ) migraine headaches. 3 ) history of dvt.4 ) status post laparoscopic cholecystectomy. 5 ) status postcesarean section.allergies: bactrim causing diarrhea , ceftin causing diarrhea.medications on admission: tylenol p.r.n.; plaquenil 200 mg q. d.;coumadin 7 mg p.o. q. d.; lovenox forthe previous 6 days; allegra; albuterol mdi; cipro; heptadine.family history: no history of clotting or bleeding disorders.her father died of leukemia. she has two sisterswith arthritis and one sister with ulcerative colitis.social history: the patient has been married for 10 years and hasan eight-year-old daughter. she is an officeworker in ver albpids , pennsylvania 98749 and has not worked for the past month. shequit smoking on 9/28/99 at the time of her first admission. shehas 10-15 pack years and denies any history of alcohol or ivdu.physical examination: an obese , pleasant , female in no acutedistress. pulse 87. blood pressure 118/50.saturation 97 percent on room air. afebrile. heent: oropharynxis clear. neck is supple without lymphadenopathy or thyromegaly orjvd. lungs are clear to auscultation except scattered rales at theright base. heart normal s1 and s2. a ii/vi systolic ejectionmurmur at the left upper sternal border. abdomen - large , obese ,nontender , nondistended. extremities - no palpable cords or edema.neurologic - alert and oriented , no focal deficits.laboratory data: creatinine 0.7 , wbc 105 , hematocrit 40 , platelets307. electrocardiogram normal sinus rhythm at86. normal intervals and axis. no st-t wave abnormalities.history of present illness: , the patient wasplaced on intravenous heparin and the lovenox and coumadin werediscontinued in anticipation for an ivc filter placement thefollowing morning. she also received intravenous dihydroergotaminefor migraine headaches with good effect by the following morning.the following morning , the patient received 2 units of ffp becauseher inr was 3.0. the decision to place a filter was postponed andinstead a pulmonary angiogram was performed. this revealed noobvious recurrent pulmonary embolism. the morningof 10/27/99 , prior to the angiogram , twoevents occurred. first event , the patient was walking to thebathroom and her heart rate was noted to go at 140 beats per minuteand was approximately sinus tachycardia or supraventriculartachycardia. this resolved after 45 seconds without interventionand did not recur and there were no associated symptoms and thepatient was unaware of the event. the second event occurred aboutone hour later and the patient noted approximately 5/10 sharp rightlower sternal border chest pain which was not pleuritic and notpositional and resolved spontaneously over the next 5 minutes anddid not recur. she also had some abdominal pain. she tolerated p.o.'s withoutany gastrointestinalsymptoms throughout and the pain was mild with a benign abdominalexam. this will be pursued by her outpatient physician , ifindicated. the patient was resumed on coumadin 10 mg p.o. q. h.s.as well as lovenox in the interim 100 mg subcu b.i.d. until sheachieves a therapeutic inr which was determined by cardiology to be , 3.5 ,given that she has nothad a recurrent pe. throughout her stay she remained afebrile andwith a saturation of approximately 94-95 percent on room air ,breathing comfortably.followup: she will follow up with her primary care doctor and haveher inr checked in two days.discharge medications: cipro heptadine 4 mg p.o. b.i.d.;plaquenil 200 mg p.o. q. d.; coumadin 10 mgp.o. q. h.s.; lovenox 100 mg subcu q. 12h..disposition: the patient is discharged home. she will follow upwith her primary care doctor within one week.dictated by: terrence shidler , m.d. kw58attending: nolan tucay , m.d. ze87cc: barton darsey md pcpbatch: 11368 index no. ousup05i7v d: 4/28/99t: 6/24/99