admission date :2016-03-18discharge date :2016-04-01date of birth :1929-07-27sex :mservice : surgeryallergies :tetracyclineattending : samuel a. brown , m.d.chief complaint :transfer from lewis to hallmark health system cmed csrumajor surgical or invasive procedure :s/p i&d ( 03-17 )s/p debridement ( 03-18 )history of present illness :mr. morton is a 86 yo male transferred from kindred park view specialty hospital of springfield-sample .he developed right foot pain the sunday prior to admission and was seen by his podiatrist , who diagnosed him with gout .he was given colchicine and prednisone .mr. morton then developed more pain and warmth to his right foot later in the week and presented to the youville hospital - woody monica .at this hospital he underwent an i&d ( 03-17 ) of a right foot infection and subsequently underwent re-exploration ( 03-18 ) for developing necrotizing fascitis .he was transferred to hallmark health system for further care .past medical history :pmh : prostate ca , glaucomapsh : rih repair , s/p turp , s/p thyroid excisionsocial history :etohphysical exam :98.9 , 93 , 137/78 , 16 , 98%gen : nadheent : eomi , anicteric, op pinkneck : no masses , supplecv : rrr , no m/rresp : cleargi : soft/nt/ndext : r foot with erythema / swelling ; muscle and tendons exposed , with necrotic edges , some fibrinous exudateneuro : axox3pertinent results :mri rle 03-21" 1. 7 cm linear fluid collection running between the anterior and lateral muscle compartments , extending from a large area of soft tissue loss seen in the distal lateral foreleg to roughly the mid tibia / fibula , 18 cm distal to the knee joint line .the collection is largest at its most proximal extent , measuring 1.4 x 0.7 cm in the transverse dimension .2. non-specific myositis involving multiple muscle groups in the foreleg , most severe in the anterior , lateral , and posterior deep compartments .3. tendinosis of the posterior tibialis and peroneus brevis tendons .no tendon tear .4. no evidence of abnormal bone marrow signal intensity or intraosseous abscess ."rle angio 03-21" 1. mild but multifocal atherosclerotic disease involving the infrarenal aorta and iliac arteries , with no significant pressure gradient associated .2. significant segmental stenosis ( approx. 5-6 cm long ) in the mid right superficial femoral artery .3. high bifurcation of the popliteal artery at the knee level .4. in the proximal calf , severe stenosis or occlusion of the two terminal branches arising from this popliteal bifurcation ( likely the anterior tibial and the peroneal arteries ).two significant focal stenoses of the distal right anterior tibial artery .right posterior tibial artery completely occluded .5. patent medial and lateral plantar arteries , filled through collaterals arising mostly from the peroneal artery .dorsalis pedis artery not seen ."brief hospital course :mr. morton was admitted to the tsicu .he was placed on penicillin g , clindamycin , for empiric coverage of his wound , with group a strep growth from the new england baptist hospital-bryce cultures .he was transferred to the floor on hd#2 .he continued to undergo bid dressing changes .plastic surgery was asked to evaluate the patient .per their recommendations , silvadine was applied to the tendons to prevent dessication .vascular surgery was also asked to evaluate the patient 's right lower extremity blood flow .an angiogram on hd#4 showed severe tibial disease and moderate sfa disease , no dp artery was seen .the vascular team recommended a femoral-peroneal bypass for revascularization and performed this operation on hd#5 .he tolerated the procedure well , please see dr. allgood operative note for detail .on pod#1 , mr. morton received 2 units of prbcs for post-op anemia ( hct 25 ).mr. morton continued to be followed by infectious disease , whose recommendations were to complete a 01-28 week course of penicillin g and clindamycin after the foot was completely debrided and the skin flaps completed .his wound continued to heal well and by pod #6 a vac dressing was placed .he received a picc on pod#7 for his long-term antibiotic therapy .at the time of discharge , mr. morton had good pain control , was tolerating a regular diet , had a well-healing wound treated with a vac dressing , and was to continue his iv pcn g and clindamycin .he was discharged to a rehab facility in fair condition .medications on admission :timolol .5%discharge disposition :extended caredischarge diagnosis :right lower extremity necrosing fascitis history of prostate cancer s/p turp glaucomadischarge condition :fairdischarge instructions :if you have any fevers/chills , nausea/vomiting , chest pain , foot pain , please seek medical attention .followup instructions :please follow up with dr. mallard in one week , call 421-3721 for an appointment .follow up with dr. adner in 2 weeks , call 763-9180 for an appointment .mark william md 19-081completed by : shane gabrielle md 73-971 2016-04-01 @ 0836signed electronically by : dr. robert howell on: wed 2016-05-18 5:18 pm( end of report )