record #388576834109900 | jvhamc | 06321556 | | 260639 | 10/13/1991 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/13/1991 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/12/1991discharge diagnosis: aneurysm repair.automatic implantable cardioverterdefibrillator patch placement.history of present illness: the patient is a 60 year old whitefemale , status post large anteriormyocardial infarction complicated by ventricular tachycardia ,ventricular fibrillation arrest and aneurysm , admitted for surgicalrepair and aicd ( automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator )placement. the patient's cardiac risk factors includedhypertension , increased cholesterol , adult-onset diabetes mellitus ,positive family history , positive previous myocardial infarction.her cardiac course was notable for a large anterior myocardialinfarction on 8 of february .  the patient received recombinant tissueplasminogen activator and underwent emergent percutaneoustransluminal coronary angioplasty. a left ventriculogram showedanterior septal dyskinesis and ejection fraction was approximately20%. the patient had postoperative tamponade requiringpericardiocentesis. on 8 of february , the patient suffered worseningcongestive heart failure , tachyarrhythmia and required emergentcardioversion and subsequent medical therapy. she had recurrentventricular tachycardia treated with lidocaine. in 22 of june ,electrophysiologic studies were performed and the patient wasstarted on amiodarone. the patient also underwent transplantevaluation with cardiac catheterization showing occluded leftanterior descending coronary artery at s1 , right dominant system ,marked left ventricular dilatation with anterior septal dilatationand ejection fraction 18%. right atrial pressures were 60/12/11 ,right ventricular pressures 56/14 , pulmonary capillary wedgepressure 34 , cardiac index 31. an echocardiogram showed leftatrium 4.9 centimeters , left ventricle with normal wall thickness ,plus thrombus and mild pericardial effusion , anterior septalakinesis , hypokinetic left ventricle , 1+ tricuspid regurgitation ,2+ mitral regurgitation. the patient was admitted at this time foraneurysm repair. past medical history revealed coronary arterydisease as above , hiatal hernia , adult-onset diabetes mellitus ,hypertension , status post total abdominal hysterectomy andbilateral salpingo-oophorectomy , status post appendectomy , statuspost cholecystectomy. medications on admission included micronase5 milligrams by mouth each day , amiodarone 200 milligrams by moutheach day , captopril 37.5 milligrams by mouth 3 times a day ,coumadin 2 milligrams by mouth each day. allergies were tohalcion , which causes hallucinations. social history revealed thepatient is married with 5 children , 7 grandchildren.physical examination: on admission , the patient was a pleasant ,middle-aged , white female in no acutedistress. the patient was afebrile , blood pressure 98/60 ,temperature 98 , respiratory rate 24 , oxygen saturation on room airwas 92%. skin was without lesions. head , eyes , ears , nose andthroat examination was within normal limits. neck was supplewithout lymphadenopathy , carotids 2+ without bruits , no jugularvenous distention. chest examination was significant for ralesabout 1/3 of the way up from the bases. cardiac examinationrevealed s1 and s2 , positive s3 , ii/vi systolic murmur was heard atthe left upper sternal border radiating to the apex. abdomen wassoft , nontender , nondistended , no organomegaly. extremitiesrevealed 2+ pitting edema. neurologic examination was nonfocal.rectal examination revealed normal tone , guaiac negative stool.laboratory examination: chest x-ray on admission revealedcardiomegaly , left pleural effusion versusscarring , mild pulmonary vascular redistribution. theelectrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm at 85 , left atrialenlargement , low voltages , no change compared to old study ofprevious admission. other laboratory data on admission wasunremarkable.hospital course: the patient was admitted on 17 of january , to thesurgery service and the procedure was performedon 27 of april .  please see the operation note for description of theaneurysmectomy and aicd patch placement. the patient was managedpostoperatively on the surgical service without complications , andtransferred to the medical service 2 days prior to discharge. onthe medical service , treatment included removal of the patient'schest tube , removal of her pacing wires , and captopril wasincreased to a final dose of 37.5 milligrams.disposition: the patient was discharged to home. medications ondischarge included coumadin 2 milligrams by moutheach day , bactrim-double-strength 1 by mouth twice a day times 6days , amiodarone 200 milligrams by mouth each day , micronase 5milligrams by mouth each day , captopril 37.5 milligrams by mouth 3times a day. condition on discharge was stable. the patient wasto follow-up with dr. shad bozard in 4 weeks , and with dr. royce m. j stockham . the patient was to have her prothrombin time and partialthromboplastin time checked at her local coumadin clinic.vw697/1450kelly m. turbeville , m.d. jr4 d: 10/11/92batch: 6361 report: k3711h42 t: 5/4/92dictated by: jeff e. heim , m.d.[report_end]