admission date :2011-11-18discharge date :2011-11-22date of birth :1950-04-21sex :mservice :ccureason for admission :acute inferior myocardial infarction and right ventricular infarction .history of present illness :the patient is a 61 - year-old caucasian-speaking woman with a history of hypercholesterolemia and tobacco use who developed waxing and waning left substernal chest pain with radiation to the left shoulder on 2011-11-17 which lasted that entire day .upon waking on the morning of admission , she had 10/10 chest pain associated with nausea .she presented to charlton memorial hospital hospital emergency department with inferior st elevations ; at which time she became acutely hypotensive to a systolic blood pressure of 70 to 80 after receiving one ublingual nitroglycerin .she then became bradycardic which responded to atropine and intravenous fluids .in addition , she was given aspirin , plavix , heparin , and morphine .immediately prior to transfer to worcester state hospital , she went into ventricular fibrillation arrest at 12:30 p.m. , at which time she was intubated and defibrillated back to sinus rhythm after five shocks .she received an amiodarone bolus of 150 mg intravenously and was continued on an amiodarone drip while cmed csru-flighted to boston regional medical centerr where she underwent a catheterization .the cardiac catheterization revealed a total occlusion of the proximal right coronary artery and diffuse right coronary artery disease .she received three stents to the right coronary artery which was complicated by a proximal dissection .she had good post percutaneous coronary intervention angiographic results .incidentally , an aortogram during the catheterization revealed a debakey class i aortic ascending aneurysm , and the patient had a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 20 at the time of catheterization .she was transferred to the coronary care unit in stable condition and still intubated .past medical history :hypercholesterolemia .medications on admission :" flumaran " for circulatory problems .she receives this medication by mail from her relatives in jill .medications on admission to coronary care 0408398 .amiodarone drip .2. integrilin drip .3. intravenous fluids .allergies :a question of a sulfa allergy .social history :the patient lives alone in woburn .she came from czech republic 14 years ago .she works as a nursing assistant in a nursing home .she smokes approximately one and a half packs of cigarettes per day for the last 30 years .family history :family history is not significant for any early history of coronary artery disease .physical examination on presentation :examination on admission to the coronary care unit revealed blood pressure was 100/57 , with a mean arterial pressure of 75 , heart rate was sinus rhythm at 75 , temperature was 97.6 , oxygen saturation was 99% on assist control with a tidal volume of 600 on 60% fio2 , 5 of positive end-expiratory pressure .in general , she was sedated at the time , responsive to stimuli , and was following commands .she had moist mucous membranes .her carotids were 2+ bilaterally .her lungs were clear to auscultation anteriorly .her heart revealed a regular rate and rhythm with a faint second heart sound and second heart sound .no audible extra heart sounds .her abdomen was obese and had positive bowel sounds .it was soft and nontender .she had peripheral edema with 2+ peripheral pulses bilaterally .pertinent laboratory data on presentation :her laboratories at the time of transfer to saint vincent hospital revealed white blood cell count was 11.5 , hematocrit was 42 on admission , platelets were 242 .chemistry-7 was unremarkable .creatine kinase on admission was 309 , with a mb of 19.6 , an index of 6.3 , and an initial troponin of 0.73 .radiology / imaging :a chest x-ray revealed an enlarged mediastinum with clear lung fields bilaterally .initial electrocardiogram showed a normal sinus rhythm at 65 , normal axis , 2-mm st elevations in lead iii , 1-mm st elevations in avf and v1 , 1-mm st depressions in i and avl ; consistent with an inferior and right ventricular infarction .right-sided electrocardiograms showed 1-mm st elevations in v4 ; consistent with a right ventricular infarct .electrocardiogram status post percutaneous coronary intervention revealed a normal sinus rhythm at 84 , with anormal axis , and normalizing of the inferior st segments , with q waves evolving in leads iii and avf .an echocardiogram status post percutaneous coronary intervention revealed an akinetic inferior wall and right ventricle , mild mitral regurgitation , and ascending aorta measuring 5 cm .there was no effusion .hospital course :1. cardiovascular system :on the night of admission , the patient experienced post catheterization hypotension which required intravenous fluids and dopamine .electrocardiogram the following morning revealed normalization of her st segments with evolution of q waves .her dopamine was weaned off the following day , and her heparin was discontinued secondary to a right groin hematoma which had developed after the sheath had been pulled out by the fellow .her creatine kinases climbed ; reaching a peak of 3523 , which was down to 1500 at the time of discharge .also noted on the day of 11-20 , the patient self-extubated herself .for her coronary artery disease , status post catheterization , she was given integrilin for 18 hours .she was continued on aspirin , plavix , and lipitor .for her rhythm , amiodarone was discontinued as she was maintained in sinus rhythm after moving to the floor .for pump , once transferred out of the coronary care unit on 2011-11-20 , a beta blocker was begun at 12.5 mg of lopressor p.o. b.i.d. which was titrated to 25 mg at the time of discharge .also , at the time of discharge , for increased afterload reduction , she was started on lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q.d.on 2011-11-21 , the patient experienced atypical chest pain which was made worse with inspiration and movement .it was not associated with any nausea or vomiting .it did not radiate .it was felt to be pain secondary to her self-extubation and noncardiac chest pain .an electrocardiogram was checked which revealed no st changes , and there was no increase in her downward trending creatine phosphokinases .no further intervention was done .the patient was treated with tylenol orally as well as ativan for anxiety that she had about going home .she was pain free on the day of discharge .regarding her aortic ascending aneurysm , cardiothoracic surgery was consulted regarding further workup .at their request , a ct scan of the chest with contrast was performed on the day of discharge .dr. streeter from cardiothoracic surgery will follow up with the patient for further management in approximately one month as an outpatient .his office will contact her to make that appointment .2. pulmonary system :as stated above , the patient self-extubated herself .she complained of a sore throat which was likely the etiology of her atypical chest complaints .this resolved with tylenol and as needed doses of oxycodone .her lungs remained clear to auscultation bilaterally throughout the remainder of her hospital course .at the time of this dictation , the ct of her chest was still pending .the official result was not yet in .3. fluids / electrolytes / nutrition :the patient 's electrolytes sere managed daily and repleted on an as needed basis .she did receive intravenous k-phos for a low phosphorous of 1.5 .her phosphorous rose appropriately to 3.6 at the time of discharge .discharge followup :1. the patient has an appointment to initiate primary care , as she no longer had a primary care physician .claire was to see dr. michael majerowski at the sturdy memorial clinic on the east campus , on bissonette six , in the south suite , on 31-05-03 at 11:30 a.m.2. in addition , as stated above , dr.hastings office from cardiothoracic surgery will be in contact with ms. williams to arrange followup for her ascending aortic aneurysm in approximately one month .medications on discharge :1. lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q.d.2. lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.3. plavix 75 mg p.o. q.d.4. lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.d.5. protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d.6. enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.condition at discharge :condition on discharge was stable .discharge diagnoses :1. inferior myocardial infarction and right ventricular infarction .status post cardiac catheterization and stents times three of the right coronary artery .2. hypertension .3. hypercholesterolemia .rosemary d mccluskey , m.d. 39-696dictated by : harriet e. evans , m.d.medquist36d : 2011-11-22 14:09t : 2011-11-23 11:59job #: 15087signed electronically by : dr. sandra burger on : wed 2011-11-30 9:46 am( end of report )