record #459401544459454 | hc | 77837250 | | 653093 | 5/29/1993 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 0/16/1993 report status: signeddischarge date: 4/5/1993discharge diagnosis: left hemisphere cerebrovascular accidentsecondary to occlusions of the middlecerebral arterysecondary diagnoses: 1. atrial septal defect2. prostatic hypertrophy3. degenerative joint disease4. umbilical herniahistory of present illness: mr. dorich is a 66-year-old righthanded gentleman with no previousadmissions to tiftver community , who presented on24 of june , after having fallen out of bed at about 5:45 in themorning. he was noted to be mute at the time and was unable tomove the right arm and leg. he was brought by ambulance to theemergency room , where much of his motor deficits resolved , as wellas some of his speech deficit. this occurred within an hour.there was no loss of consciousness associated with the fall , andthe patient was not noted to have any unusual movements orverbalizations , or tongue biting , or incontinence. he was"stunned" for a minute ( by the report of his son ) just afterfalling. the patient denied headaches , vertigo , double vision ,hoarseness or numbness , or nausea , vomiting , or palpitations. hehad had no previous neurological symptoms prior to this event.there was also no chest pain. there was no history of high bloodpressure or heart disease , or recent fever and chills or sweats.he had been feeling quite well up until this point. past medicalhistory: significant for an umbilical hernia , which had beenpresent for many years. he also suffered from prostatism. in thelast year , he had regained much of the weight that he had lostprevious on special diet. social history: he did not smoke nordid he use alcohol or elicit drugs. there was no significantfamily history of heart disease or strokes.physical examination: the patient is a severely obese gentlemen ,who had a blood pressure of 115/59 in theright arm; with a respiratory rate of 12; heart rate of 72. he wasafebrile. heent: remarkable for a slight bruise on the righttemple where the patient hit his head during the fall. the neckshowed no signs of meningismus. the carotids were poorly palpatedsecondary to the thickness of his neck. the cardiovascularexamination revealed regular rate and rhythm without any murmurs orrubs. there were no bruits. the lungs were clear. the abdomenrevealed umbilical hernia , but was otherwise benign. theextremities had full pulses throughout , and a trace of edema.there was no calf tenderness noted. on neurological examination ,the patient was oriented x 3. he was now able to speak , and wasquite alert. he could register 3 words forward and 2 wordsbackwards. he could count from 20 to 1. his language was abnormalwith waxing and weaning worsening of functions. his meaning wasclear , but he did make errors , calling a pen and pencil. hisspeech was mostly fluent but there were quite a few paraphasias.there was decreased comprehension and decreased repetitions andthere was one prominent error in reading in which he repeatedlyread the "leaf" as "deaf". there was no right/left confusion , andthe patient was able to write. there was no neglect noted.long-term memory was essentially intact and there were a few errorswith short term tasks. cranial nerve examination revealed fullvisual fields to confrontation with sharp discs and no evidence ofcholesterol emboli. the discs were sharp. the pupils equal roundand reactive to light and accommodation. conjugate eye movementsin all directions. there was full sensation on the face to pinprick. there was a slight decrease nasal labial fold on the rightand some decreased hearing on the right. the palate moved upwardbilaterally and the sternocleidomastoid was strong. the tongueprotruded to the midline. motor examination revealed normal tonethroughout and to formal testing the patient had 5/5 power in allextremities except the right iliopsoas which demonstrated 5-/5power. there was mild right sided drift of the upper extremities.the patient had sensory decrease to vibration on the right lowerextremity. pin prick and light touch were within normal limits , aswas joint position sense. the patient was mildly uncoordinatedwith slowing of rapid alternating movements in the right upperextremity. there was normal finger-nose-finger maneuver andheel-knee-shin maneuvers in both the upper and lower extremitiesbilaterally. the gait was not assessed initially ( but during therest of the hospital course , was noted to be quite normal ).laboratory data: the patient had fully normal electrolytes with aglucose of 105; sodium 139; potassium 4.4; whitecount 7.5; hemoglobin 13.5; hematocrit 39.8; platelets 225; pt andptt were 12.6 and 28.4 respectively; calcium was normal. liverfunction tests were normal. ekg showed normal sinus rhythm withoutany signs of ischemia. carotid ultrasounds were done immediately ,and the patient was noted to have normal carotids withoutsignificant stenosis. a ct scan was obtained without contrast ,showing evidence of an early left frontal parietal infarction onthe left. there was no evidence of hemorrhage , and there was nomass effect noted.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the neurology serviceand was started on heparin , as it was felt thathis event had most likely been an embolic event. during the firstday , his speech waxed and wained , and by 2 of the hospitalization ,his speech was clearly abnormal with marked deficits in speechgeneration with many pauses and profound word finding difficulty.repetition and comprehension were somewhat better than the initialpresentation. a repeat ct scan was obtained showing no evidencefor bleeding. this ct scan , now 3 days from the initial event ,showed an acute infarct in the posterior inferior left frontal lobeand posterior temporal lobe , and extending into the sylvianfissure. again , there was no evidence of hemorrhage or masseffect , and the patient was continued on heparin.because the patient was unable to fit into the mri scanner atvaplacea memorial medical center , he had a diagnostic mri done at theskilli memorial health center , and this revealed , in addition to the originallesion noted on ct scan , a second lesion , corresponding with anocclusion of the posterior division of the middle cerebral artery.this lesion was in the left parietal region. by the end of thehospitalization , the patient's aphasia was quite clearly a verymixed aphasia , with elements of poor comprehension , as well asdifficulties with fluency.an investigation as to the cause of the patient's stroke wasinitiated with an mr angiogram of the cerebral vasculature , whichrevealed no significant carotid or posterior circulation defects.an echocardiogram was done revealing normal ventricular functionwith an ejection fraction of 55% without any wall motionabnormality or thrombi noted. it was felt that the patient'spresentation warranted further review , and a transesophagealechocardiogram was also done revealing an atrial septal defect , asevidenced by significant positive bubble study. the patient wastherefore started on coumadin. while the workup was being done ,the patient also had an eeg that revealed abnormality consistentwith the 2 infarcts noted on mri. these were not felt , however , tobe definite seizure phenomena. coagulation studies were doneshowing normal cardiolipin. protein c was slightly elevatedprotein s , a normal ana , and a sed rate that was slightly elevatedat 26.the patient was seen by the speech pathologist , and therapy wasbegun , and this will continue as an outpatient.the patient continued to have difficulties with voiding , with apost void residual of 450 after voiding 400. he was seen by theurologist and was noted to have a quite large prostate. the psawas 14.6. the patient opted not to have surgical interventionduring this hospitalization or in near future. he was started oncardura at 1 mg q hs , which was slowly increased to 4 mg q hs , asmedical intervention for decreasing sphincter tone.the patient also had some mild pain in the left knee with minimaleffusion , that was noted by x-ray. there was no evidence forfracture. there was a small increase in his uric acid. heresponded quite nicely to ibuprofen.after day 3 , the patient's speech stabilized and graduallyimproved , all be it very , very , slowly. he was therapeutic on hiscoumadin at the time of discharge , with his hopes that his inr willbe in the mid 2 range ( 2.3-2.8 ).medications on discharge: 1. cardura 2 mg po q hs x 2 nights ,then 4 mg po q hs every nightthereafter. 2. coumadin 5.0 mg q hs to be monitored and adjustedas needed in the near future. follow-up care: the patient wasdischarged in good condition to his home with the followingfollow-up appointments: 1. primary m.d. , dr. giovanni behanna , at theon phpu valley health clinic on 1 of october , at 10:20 am. 2. dr. maendel at theurology clinic on 16 of may , at 3:30 pm. 3. dr. matthew prokup inthe neurology clinic on 17 of october , at 2:00 pm. 4. the patient willcontinued to receive speech therapy at his home through thevisiting nurses association. condition on discharge: he isdischarged in good condition with full 5/5 strength in all 4extremities , to his home.dictated by: antony ede , m.d. ka2attending: danial h. hommel , m.d. ld65  vt045/8015batch: 8750 index no. khoyl9890x d: 1/10/93t: 6/14/93cc: 1. dr. jae bulgin , upa towna hospital[report_end]