770790888 | vdmh | 17949119 | | 9471365 | 3/2/2007 12:00:00 am | pregnancy , 6 weeks diabetic | signed | dis | admission date: 1/27/2007 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/27/2007attending: obey , lawrence mdservice: obstetrics/maternal fetal medicine.principal diagnosis:1. pre-gestational diabetes.2. history of coronary artery disease.3. recurrent sabs4. hepatitis b.history of present illness: the patient is a 36-year-old g16 ,p0-0-15-0 , who presented at 6 and 4/7 weeks by lmpconsistent with ultrasound of the day of admission , as a transferfrom the high-risk obstetric clinic , admitted to the fullerantepartum service for diabetic control. the patient hadpresented to the special ob clinic as a new patient for prenatalcare. review of her medical problems revealed that the recentglucose control had been suboptimal. in view of this and in viewof the fact that the patient had multiple other issues , thepatient was admitted for diabetic control , adjustment of herinsulin regimen and evaluation regarding the other medicalproblems.history of present pregnancy: the patient had a lastmenstrual period in the second week of october . ultrasound on theday of admission , 9/5/07 , revealed a 6.6-week intrauterinepregnancy with a fetal heart rate of 110. the estimated date ofconfinement is 4/19/07. prenatal screening labs were pending atthe time of admission. the patient has blood group o +ve.past medical history: the patient has a history of st elevationmyocardial infarction in 2000. the infarct was a presumedembolism to the left anterior descending and the left circumflex coronaryartery. the complete occlusion of the mid-to-distal leftanterior descending artery , which was thought to be due tothrombosis , was treated with tpa and angioplasty. the patient hada normal catheterization in october 2000. the last echocardiogramrevealed an ejection fraction of 45% in 2002; however , thepatient never had a repeat echo since that time. on the day ofadmission , the patient reported that she was able to climb fourflights of stairs to her apartment , haveing to pause after two flights ofstairs to catch her breath.in addition , the patient has a history of diabetes mellitus , diagnosed in 2000.the patient had a medical admission in 2006 for hypoglycemia when sheincidentally injected humalog instead of lantus. on the day of admission , thepatient was on a humalog 7 units b.i.d. and lantus 12 units inthe evening. her fasting sugars were in the 150s before admission and herblood sugar measurements were over 200 in the evening. on the day ofadmission , the fasting sugar was 123.in addition , the patient has a history of hepatitis b ,diagnosed in 2005. the patient had a positive e antigen in 2005.she had previously been on epivir 150 mg p.o. daily , but thiswas stopped prior to the current pregnancy.past ob/gyn history: the patient has a history of a fibroiduterus , and a history of recurrent miscarriages. in terms of thefibroid uterus , the patient did report pelvic pain in theoutpatient setting. ultrasound had shown an 8-10 cmdominant posterior fibroid. the patient occasionally takesoxycodone for fibroid pain.in terms of the patient's recurrent miscarriages , the patient had fifteen sabsin the past with over 10 dilatation and evacuations , including one molarpregnancy with subsequent choriocarcinoma. all losses were in the firsttrimester , less than 12 weeks' gestation. the patient had beenevaluated previously for a thrombophilia workup , but this hadbeen negative multiple times aside from a mthfr gene mutation ,which was noted on this admission , and it is unclear whether thishas been addressed previously. the patient had previously beentold by a reproductive endocrinologist , that she should consideradoption or a gestational carrier. chromosomes on severalpathology specimens from the previous abortions showedaneuploidy.the patient currently denies a history of sexuallytransmitted infections. she has a history of cervical dysplasia ,with a history of cin i and cin ii in 1990 and 1992. sheunderwent a leep in 1992 , which was consistent with hsil. allsubsequent pap smears were either within normal limits. last papsmear done in february 2006 at rexmo sha hospital of was insufficient foranalysis. in terms of the patient's history of choriocarcinoma , the patienthad a molar pregnancy , which then developed into a subsequent choriocarcinoma.for this , the patient was treated with methotrexate , actinomycin d and cytoxan ,then vp-16 , cisplatin and bleomycin with presumed cure.past surgical history: dilatation and evacuation x10 ,hysteroscopy for infertility workup , and leep.medications on admission: humalog insulin 7 units twice a day ,lantus 12 units in the evening , aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily stoppedprior to pregnancy , history of lamivudine/epivir use , 150 dailystopped prior to current pregnancy.allergies: no known drug allergies.social history: former smoker , given up smoking in 2000 after amyocardial infarct. no history of alcohol abuse or iv drug use.the patient lives in doreska dr , nah min knox with her boyfriend , unemployed.family history: no history of gyn malignancies , history ofmaternal diabetes , longstanding. father with coronary arterydisease in his 50s.hospital course: the patient was admitted for the primarypurpose of diabetic control.1. diabetes mellitus. the patient had reported poor diabeticcontrol as an outpatient. therefore , her regimen was continued ,with the addition of a sliding scale , in order to determine theadditional insulin needs as an outpatient. over the course ofthe admission , the patient's lantus was increased to 20 units atnighttime , and she was using 8 units three times a day of insulinlispro , in addition to a lispro sliding scale. with thisregimen , the fingerstick glucose control improved , and thefasting blood sugar on the day of discharge was 90. on the dayprior to discharge , the patient had blood sugars in the rangefrom 93 to 139. an hba1c was sent , which was 6.7 , during thisadmission , the patient also had a nutrition consult. she will befollowed in the high-risk obstetric and diabetic clinic by dr.borguez2. cardiology. the patient was restarted on her aspirin , givenher history of myocardial infarct at a very early age. inaddition , an echocardiogram was obtained on the day afteradmission. this revealed an ejection fraction of 50% as well asa large left ventricular thrombosis , which was presumed to be alongstanding. cardiology was consulted and the impression wasthat the thrombosis was likely a combination of her leftventricular hypokinesia related to the previous infarct , as wellas her hypercoagulable state. therefore , their recommendationwas to start the patient on lovenox for the duration of thispregnancy , which adjusted for her weight was a dose of 90 mgdaily , followed by a transition to coumadin postpartum , to becontinued for likely long-term , possibly lifelong duration. thecardiology consult team noted that the mthfr mutation had notresulted in elevated homocysteine levels in the past. however ,they did agree that folate supplementation at high doses wasindicated. the patient will be continued on lovenox 90 mg dailysubcutaneously , and aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily as an outpatient.she will have cardiology followup with dr. jasper erps on3/6/07. during the entire admission , she was hemodynamicallystable , in sinus rhythm , with no complaints of chest pain ,shortness of breath or palpitations.3. hepatitis b. the patient had liver function tests and ahepatitis panel on this admission , given her history of activedisease diagnosed in 2005 , with a positive hepatitis e antigen.on admission , the patient had not been on epivir , which had beenstopped prior to this current pregnancy. liver function testswere checked on this admission and were within normal limits. inaddition , serologies were checked and the hepatitis e antigen andthe e antibody was negative. hepatitis b surface antigen and hepatitis bcore antigen were reactive. at the time of this dictation , ahepatitis b viral load was pending. given the patient's historyof hepatitis b , an outpatient appointment was being arranged atthe time of discharge , with dr. lavy , from the division ofgastroenterology at the sasspan hospital . it wasdecided that the patient should not take any lamivudine untilgastroenterology followup. during the entire hospital stay , thepatient did not have any gi complaints , was tolerating a regulardiet , and having normal regular bowel movements.4. history of fibroids , the patient was noted again to have an 8-cm fibroidon her ultrasound scan. she required rare intermittent doses ofoxycodone as required for pain , which was presumed to be relatedto her fibroid uterus.5. prenatal care. the patient had her first trimester labs senton this admission. gc and chlamydia testing were negative.urine culture was negative. the patient was o +ve. given thepatient's history of mthfr mutation and the recurrent sabs , thepatient was started on prenatal vitamins , as well as high-dosefolic acid , b12 and b6. in view of the patient's diabetichistory , and a transiently elevated creatinine to 1.2 on hospitalday 2 , which went back to 0.7 on the day of discharge , thepatient had a 24-hour urine collection sent , this returnednegative at 92 mg per 24 hours. it was noted that the patienthad an ophthalmology retinal exam at an outside hospital healthcenter this year. for the remainder of this pregnancy , it wasnoted that the patient will require ultrasounds at 11 and 17weeks , as well as a fetal echo , and the recommended testing forpre-gestational diabetics for the remainder of the pregnancy.the patient was discharged in a stable condition , with followupappointments arranged for the various specialties.disposition: home without services.discharge condition: stable.discharge medications:1. aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.2. lovenox subcutaneously 90 mg daily.3. vitamin b12 100 mcg p.o. daily.4. folate 4 mg p.o. daily.5. prenatal vitamins one tablet p.o. daily.6. lantus 20 units subcutaneously q.p.m..7. insulin lispro 8 units subcutaneously ac , as well as lisprosliding scale , in addition a ac.follow-up appointments:1. special ob on 1/5/07.2. dr. lantry , endocrinology on 1/5/07.3. dr. nolan conners , cardiology , on 3/6/07.4. dr. winscott , gastroenterology , the patient will receiveletter with the appointment from gi clinic.escription document: 2-2728371 cssten teldictated by: maiocco , dallasattending: marcolina , emmittdictation id 9930654d: 7/28/07t: 7/28/07