582286141 | mbmh | 08412267 | | 151944 | 2/10/2000 12:00:00 am | rule out myocardial infarction | signed | dis | admission date: 10/18/2000 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/20/2000principal diagnosis: coronary artery disease.other problems: diabetes , asthma , smoking , gi bleeding of unknownetiology , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia.history of present illness: the patient is a 71-year-old man withcoronary artery disease with riskfactors of diabetes , hypertension , cigarette smoking , and a reportof hypercholesterolemia. the patient has reported a history ofangina over the past several years which was well controlled bynitroglycerin. in october of 1997 , he was able to exercise 3minutes of the bruce protocol with maximum heart rate of 79 and ablood pressure of over 80 with no evidence of ischemia on ekg. anecho at that time was also normal. about a month prior toadmission , the patient began experiencing progressive chest painwhich seemed related to exertion. he described the chest pain asburning and radiating to his neck. the patient has a history ofgastroesophageal reflux , and was referred for egd , but this testwas postponed until a further workup of the patient's chest pain.at baseline he reports exercise-related chest pain everyday as well asoccasional chest pain at rest relieved by about 3-5 nitroglycerin. theseepisodes are associated with diaphoresis , shortness of breath , but no nausea orvomiting.past medical history: significant for coronary artery disease ,gastritis , gerd , gi bleed in february of1999 , nephrolithiasis , diabetes , history of atrial fibrillation ,asthma , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia.admission medications: cardizem , klonopin , aspirin , prilosec ,paxil , nitroglycerin , p.r.n. , azmacort ,albuterol , mevacor , iron , nph.allergies: none known.physical examination: afebrile , pulse 71 , blood pressure 107/53 ,satting 97%on room air. pertinent positiveinclude occasional bilateral wheezes on lung exam. cardiovascular:regular rate , normal s1 and s2 , no murmurs , rubs , or gallops.neck: no evidence of jvd and no carotid bruits. abdomen: benign.extremities: no cyanosis , clubbing or edema , and dorsalis pedisand posterior tibialis pulses were 2+ bilaterally. rectal:significant for guaiac-positive dark brown stool.admission laboratory: significant for hematocrit of 29.4 , with anmcv of 78 , cardiac enzymes were negative onadmission.ekg on admission showed normal sinus rhythm with a rate of 70. nosignificant st or t wave abnormalities.procedures: cardiac catheterization status post right coronaryartery stent was performed during the patient'shospital stay. no complications resulted from this procedure.hospital course by problem:1. cardiovascular. on february , the patient had an exercisetreadmill test bruce protocol. he exercised for 2 minutes and 30seconds achieving a maximum heart rate of 104 with maximum bloodpressure of 130/90 , however , the test was terminated at lowexercise level for shortness of breath an leg fatigue. no ekgchanges were noted during this test. since this test was nondiagnostic , thepatient was scheduled for a dobutamine mibi. this test showed a significantarea of ischemia in the inferior and apical regions of the heart. anechocardiogram performed also showed an area of hypokinesis in the inferiorregion of the heart. cardiac catheterization performed on february showed100% occlusion of the lad and 75% occlusion of the right coronaryartery with stent placement. prior to stent placement , mr. niesborellahad two episodes of chest pain in the hospital which resolved withnitroglycerin. he had no chest pain following stent placement. he also hadtransient episodes of atrial fibrillation/flutter.2. gastrointestinal. mr. tangerman was noted to guaiac positive onadmission. he also reported some symptoms consistent withgastroesophageal reflux. while in inpatient , his prilosec wasincreased at 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. he was followed by gi while ininpatient and it was recommended that he have a repeat egd andcolonoscopy as an outpatient.discharge medications: albuterol inhaler 2 puffs inhaled q.i.d.p.r.n. wheezing , enteric coated aspirin325 mg p.o. q.d. , klonopin 0.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , insulin nph 25 unitssubq b.i.d. , mevacor 20 mg p.o. q.d. , lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,nitroglycerin p.r.n. chest pain , prilosec 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,azmacort 4 puffs inhaled b.i.d. , paxil 20 mg p.o. q.d. , clopidogrel75 mg p.o. q.d.discharge condition: stable.disposition: the patient was discharged to home.dictated by: maxwell dykhoff , m.d. ko42attending: vaughn yanosky , m.d. am88  cu188/5193batch: 65998 index no. oedc639p0r d: 1/1t: 1/1