355791626hlgmc481038386837/sz344/4/1992 12:00:00 amcongestive heart failure .unsigneddisreport status :unsignedadmission date :4-4-92discharge date :04-11-92principal diagnosis :congestive heart failure .associated diagnosis :1. schizotypal personality disorder ,2. diabetes mellitus ,3. chronic renal insufficiency .adverse drug reactions :none .clinical infections :none .special procedures and operations :none .medications on discharge :1. lasix 60 mg intravenously b.i.d. ,2. enalapril 5mg po q.day ,3. heparin 5000 units subcutaneously b.i.d. ,4. regular insulin 0-10 units subcutaneously q a.m. , as indicated by fasting blood sugar ,5. albuterol nebulizer 0.3 cc in 2.5 cc normal saline q4h prn .history of present illness :the patient is a 76 year old female with a history of schizotypal personality disorder , congestive heart failure , peripheral vascular disease , diabetes mellitus , chronic renal insufficiency , and a documented ejection fraction of 18% , who presented to the heaonboburg linpack grant medical center emergency ward with shortness of breath .the patient was a resident at tawn list medical center in rangefield war , kentucky , where she was in her usual state of health until approximately seven days prior to admission , when she was noted to have a non productive cough .over the ensuing week , she developed increased weakness , decreased appetite , and began refusing all of her medications .she became progressively short of breath over this time , and was eventually brought to the heaonboburg linpack grant medical center emergency ward for this reason .no other history is available .the patient denies any fevers , chest pain , shortness of breath , cough , and is generally uncooperative with the history .past medical history :1. congestive heart failure .the patient was admitted in december of 1992 , at that time with anasarca and congestive heart failure , responsive to diuretics and ace inhibitors .she has a diabetic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of 18% , likely due to alcohol abuse in the past ,2. non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus .the patient is generally diet-controlled and does not require any additional insulin ,3. nephrotic syndrome , believed secondary to diabetes mellitus .last 24 hour urine measured 3.5 grams of protein .4. chronic renal insufficiency , likely secondary to her diabetes nephrotic syndrome .baseline creatinine reported at 3.5 , although on this hospitalization , her baseline is better .5. peripheral vascular disease .the patient is status post several toe amputations for footulcers ,6. schizotypal personality disorder .the patient has a history of paranoid delusions .she has been seen by psychiatry on many occasions , and anti-psychotic medications have not been found to work for her .the patient is not competent to make her medical decisions and this is done by her guardian , mr. gross .she is intermittently combative or difficult to deal with .she frequently refuses her medications based on her paranoia .of note , she is not deemed competent to refuse medications and these issues should be discussed with her guardian if her refusal of treatment interferes with her overall health ,7. history of diverticulitis , inactive .social history :the patient was homeless before she lived in eastny medical center .her family is not involved in her care .her guardian is mr. inemacistin gross , who can be reached at work at 377-818-6787 .medications on admission :1. lasix 80 mg po q.day ,2. colace 100 mg po t.i.d. ,3. ranitidine 150 mg po qhs ,4. robitussin prn .allergies :the patient has a questionable allergy to penicillin , although the patient denies allergies .physical examination :on physical examination , an uncooperative white female sitting up in bed in no acute distress .her vital signs included a blood pressure of 166/108 , heart rate 100 , temperature refused , respirations 24 , oxygen saturation on room air 92% , 99% on two liters .skin :cool and dry .the head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination was benign .her neck was supple with full range of motion .no lymphadenopathy or thyromegaly .her lungs had inspiratory and expiratory wheezes throughout with rales heard halfway up bilaterally .there are scattered rhonchi .the breath sounds are decreased at the bases .the heart exam revealed a normal sl and s2 , with a soft s3 .the abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , normal active bowel sounds , slightly obese .back :no costovertebral angle tenderness .there is some sacral pitting edema .the rectal examination was refused .extremities :2-3+ peripheral edema to the hips .there is a right toe ulcer without erythema , which could not be better visualized secondary to patient refusal .laboratory data :significant for a sodium of 140 , potassium 5.7 , chloride 108 , bicarbonate 21.2 , bun and creatinine 66 and 2.9 , glucose 198 , calcium 8.4 , phosphate 4.0 , magnesium 1.7 , total bilirubin 1.0 , alkaline phosphatase 153 , sgot 21 , ldh 236 , amylase 32 , urate 7.2 , albumen 2.4 , hematocrit 39.9 , white blood count 10.7 , platelet count 197,000 , mean corpuscular volume 79 , coagulation studies within normal limits .her chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly with bilateral pleural effusions and moderate interstitial / air space pattern consistent with congestive heart failure .the electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia at 100 beats per minute with left bundle branch block .there is no acute change from january , 1992 .hospital course :the patient was admitted to the medical service for management of her congestive heart failure .due to her refusal of oral medications , she was started on intravenous lasix twice a day .she diuresed well to this , losing approximately one liter in fluid and one pound each day during her hospital course .a repeat chest x-ray on april 9 showed markedly improved congestive heart failure with mild residual redistribution of the vasculature , and very small pleural effusions .the remainder of the patient &apos;s medical issues were stable during this hospitalization .she intermittently refused medications due to her paranoia and frequently refused to speak with medical staff .she was cooperative with the nurses when receiving her lasix , and took her enalapril with much encouragement on several occasions .she did allow daily weights and chest x-rays on occasion .she was also compliant with her daily accu checks for blood glucose monitoring .the patient generally found that a patient , quiet approach with the patient was most successful .her diabetes mellitus was well controlled with very rare need for additional insulin .her blood glucose ranged between 100 and 200 .her renal function was stable with a bun and creatinine of 62/2.7 at the time of discharge .her hyperkalemia , which was noted on admission , resolved with potassium levels of approximately four .disposition / plan on discharge :the patient was discharged in stable condition to den health .she will continue to receive intravenous medications and close monitoring of her multiple medical problems there .centesha skifolm , m.d.tr :xu / bmotdd :04-11-92td :04/11/92cc :dr. ca shuff stat