record #367805114656880 | phmh | 34005199 | | 6517259 | 11/8/2006 12:00:00 am | fever | signed | dis | admission date: 2/23/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/28/2006attending: haapala , dean mdchief complaint:the patient came in with chief complaint of altered mental statusand questionable fever.history of present illness:this is an 82-year-old male with multiple medical problems ,coronary artery disease status post cabg , congestive heartfailure with ef of 30% in 2005 , diabetes , and renal insufficiencywith several recent hospitalizations who is discharged from thehospital on 1/19/06 status post a chf exacerbation , and apneumonia , and an uti in the previous admission was complicated with pseudomonasand was treated with ceftriaxone , but then later on cefepime. of note ,since then , the patient had a progressive changes inmental status and increasing confusion with difficulty balancingand becoming lethargic. thus , prompted the patient to come to theemergency room. in the ed , on 8/6/06 , the patient wasafebrile , vital signs stable , who was received vancomycin ,ceftazidime and levofloxacin. at that point in time , a 1 literof normal saline.physical examination on admission:temperature was 97.6 , heart rate in the 60s , blood pressure wasstable at 120/60 and 96% on 2 liters. the patient , otherwise ,cardiac exam has a systolic murmur , which is right upper sternalborder. abdominal exam was soft , mildly distended and hypoactivewith bowel sounds. the patient's extremities , on the right lowerextremity was noted to be amputated of metatarsals and in theleft extremity , posterior distal 5-cm area has a erythematous ,warm area of pus muscle and fascia exposed , no bone area of overtnecrosis. no evidence of exposure of bone or no exposed bone orany areas of overt necrosis.laboratory data:at that point , his lab was significant for creatinine 1.4 and bunof 25 , total bilirubin of 1.6 , and he has a 10.7 white bloodcount and 37 of hematocrit. the patient's chest x-ray showquestionable right pulmonary edema versus pneumonia and thepatient also had received an echo in the past , which shows an ef30% , an lvh , hypokinesis of the anterior wall and a mild mr. ekgwas sinus and mild left axis on admission day.hospital course by system:1. infectious disease: the patient has this open ulcer on the leftlower extremity on the posterior thigh shows a 5-8 cm area oferythematous fascia and muscle exposed likely may be cellulitis ,but at the time of admission , there was no pus drainage , buterythema was noted with given patient's history of diabetes andrecent hospitalization and also pseudomonal infection from the wound , so thepatient will start to treat with vancomycin and zosyn. however ,culture shows a staph , pseudomonas and gram-negative rods onvancomycin and zosyn , so we changed to ceftazidime and ultimatelychanged to imipenem and vancomycin because of sensitivities.plastic surgery was consulted and asked for wet-to-dry dressingand mri was also achieved and shows no signs of osteomyelitis andplastic also thinks that the wound has been well taken care ofduring his stay at the hospital , and the lesion has been stable.the patient should be continued on vancomycin and imipenem as an outpatient andshould be followed by his primary care , dr. kory dengel , in 2 weeksfor wound care as well as for infectious disease follow up.plastic , also recommended that the patient should have tocontinue his wet-to-dry dressings for wound care. plastic , alsorecommended a cream called ethezyme , which was instructed toapply in the lower and upper margin of the ulcer and for daily bandagechanges.2. pulmonary: there were no active issues. there was aquestionable pneumonia , however , it was resolved spontaneouslywith antibiotic treatment and chest x-ray has been unremarkablewith his following chest x-ray. the last chest x-ray that hereceived was on 6/15/06 prior to discharge and it shows moderatedegenerative changes of the mid thoracic spine , but nosignificant infiltrates was noted and no focal area ofconsolidations. the patient had stable moderate cardiomegaly andsatisfactory positioning of the right central venous catheter ,which is his picc for the iv antibiotics. no acutecardiopulmonary diseases were noted on chest x-ray.3. cardiovascular: the patient had a history of coronary arterydisease status post a cabg and a congestive heart failure with efof 30% status post recent admission for chf on exacerbation. thepatient was admitted to the hospital with the monitoring ofstrict ins and outs with daily weight but no apparent activeissues during the hospital stay. the patient has a fluidrestricted diet of less tan 1500 ml and the patient was onantihypertensive , aspirin , plavix , as well as on a cardiovasculardiet. of note , the patient's captopril 12.5 mg p.o. q. 8h. waschanged to lisinopril 5 mg p.o. daily. so , we had to increasehis lasix to 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. at the beginning because of mildlyelevated bnp , however , we decreased a lasix to 40 mg daily due toover diuresis and the patient has been doing well for withnegative diuresis of about 1 liter.4. hematology: the patient hematocrit has been stable , however ,that has been stable at 37 and on discharge it was 32 ( please refer to gi fordetails ).5. gi: the patient had a blood cards , has been no issues ofirregular bowel movement about once every two days has been on abowel regimen. however , about 2 days prior to discharge on9/23/06 early morning the patient had a bowel.hospital course:gastroenterology: the patient has no active gi issues duringthis whole hospital stay. however , on 9/23/06 , early morning ,the patient had a one huge bowel movement which included bloodclots that were witnessed by nursing. at that point in time , wegot a hematocrit back and it was 33 , and previous patient'shematocrit was 37. due to this event , the patient was asked tostay in the hospital for one more night for further evaluation.a gi consult was called from hoag f.ka health , dr. haisley ,and dr. cutwright reveals that that the patient actually had acolonoscopy about a year ago , which shows diverticuli ,hemorrhoids as well as a cecal avm that is not actively bleeding.dr. klase , who was the attending at this point in time ,recommended that we should follow up one more set of labs to makesure that the patient was not actively bleeding prior todischarge , and the patient's hematocrit on 2/21/06 , morning , was32 as well as on 3/29/05 , morning , was 33 and it was stable.overnight , the patient did not have any bowel movement.renal: in terms of renal , the patient's creatinine has beenstable between 1 to 1.2. the patient's admission creatinine was1.4 , which has slowly dropped between 1 to 1.2. the patient doesin the past have elevated creatinine which resolvedspontaneously.endocrine: in terms of endocrine , the patient is a type iidiabetic , which was covered by sliding scale , and the patientdoes have elevated tsh , low tfts , and due to the patient'shistory of lithium use , there is no need for synthroid currently.the patient's glucose has been well controlled in the hospitalwith lantus of 10 units , and it has been ranging between 110 to140. the patient will need regular fingerstick of a.c. and atbedtime before meal time and also at night to ensure that thepatient is covered by enough insulin.neurology: in terms of neurology exam , the patient had a ct scanthat was negative , and talking to family members , the patientactually has returned back to his original mental status. thepatient does have some hearing problem , so it is extremelyimportant to speak to the patient clearly and may be at timeshave to whisper to the patient's ears for him to able tounderstand the communication. the patient had negative ct scan ,but however , his physical is consistent with parkinson's disease.during the evening time as well as early morning time , thepatient does have waxing and waning episodes where the patientstarts to get confused in terms of times and day as well asplace. however , usually after breakfast , the patient will becomealert and oriented x3 again.prophylaxis: the patient is on ppi and lovenox.the patient was going to be discharged home on antibiotics. thepatient has completed his 10 days of imipenem antibiotics andvancomycin of 13 days and the patient will continue antibioticsfor the next one to two weeks and will follow up with dr. clarence g verge , and his clinic number is 837-033-9865. the patient wasdischarged home with following medications and they are aspirin81 mg p.o. daily , albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg nebs q.4 h. andp.r.n. for shortness of breath , dulcolax 10 mg pr daily p.r.n.for constipation , celexa 20 mg p.o. daily , plavix 75 mg p.o.daily , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , enoxaparin , which is thelovenox , 30 mg subcutaneously for prophylaxis , nexium 20 mg p.o.daily for prophylaxis , ethezyme one applicator topical b.i.d. ,that will be applied on his wound on the upper and the loweredges of the ulcerated region and also he would need dressingchange in association with the application of the cream , folicacid 1 mg p.o. daily , lasix 40 mg p.o. daily , and imipenem 500 mgiv q.8 h. he is on lantus 10 units subcutaneous q.p.m. , and heis also covered with insulin regular sliding scale. if insulinis less than 125 , should not give any units , if it is between 125and 150 , give 2 units , if it is between 151 and 200 , should given3 units subcutaneously , if it is between 201 and 250 , should give4 units , if it is between 251 and 300 , should give 6 units , andif it is between 301 to 350 , should give 8 units , and if higherthan 350 , should give 10 units. the patient is also on imdur 90mg p.o. daily , hold if systolic pressure less than 100 and heartrate less than 55 , lactulose 30 ml b.i.d. p.r.n. forconstipation , synthroid 137 mcg p.o. daily , lisinopril 5 mg p.o.daily , and maalox tablets one to two tablets p.o. q.6 h. p.r.n.for upset stomach , he will not be discharged to rehabilitationcenter with magnesium , zaroxolyn 2.5 mg twice weekly , lopressor12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , zyprexa 2.5 mg p.o. p.r.n. for anxiety andusually given at bedtime , oxycodone 5 mg p.o. q.6 h. p.r.n. forpain , senna , which is a tablet for his gi , two tablets p.o.b.i.d. p.r.n. for constipation , multivitamins one tablet p.o.daily , and vancomycin 1 g iv q.12 h.discharge condition:stable.code status:dnr. no crp , no defibrillation , and no intubation.discharge instructions:1. the patient will continue antibiotics , imipenem andvancomycin. the patient had 10 days of completed imipenem at thehospital and vancomycin of 13 days , and the patient will becontinued on imipenem and vancomycin until further notice by hisprimary care doctor , dr. elmo birky , in two weeks.2. the patient will continue to have dressing changes b.i.d.wet-to-dry on his left lower extremity with ethezyme creamapplied on the lower upper edges of the ulcerated lesion.3. the patient should continue to have a a.c. and at bedtimeblood glucose monitoring for the rehab stay. the patient willcontinue to have blood glucose checked as a continued basis. interms of endocrine at this point in time , the patient is coveredby lantus 10 units and covered by sliding scale. the patientshould also continue to have strict ins and outs and also dailyweights after discharge.escription document: 2-2829164 emssten teldictated by: mazon , emeryattending: lampinen , walterdictation id 8216852d: 2/21/06 \.br&amp;.br\: 2/21/06[report_end]