admission date :2016-05-10discharge date :2016-05-16service :medicinehistory of present illness :30-year-old woman with metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of unknown primary .at chelseawomens ' , about 04-25 , she developed pseudomonal urosepsis and vaginal bleeding from tumor extension/anti-coagulation .she was transfered to attleborohospital after an arrest .her course was complicated by post-hypotensive coma as well as subarachnoid hemorrhages and intraparenchymal bleeds .neurologists at rih felt she had a poor prognosis , but communication between the medical team and family was strained and transfer was arranged to mediplex rehab hospital for a second opinion .her outside course in more detail:patient transferred from women and infants hospital to ri hospital 2016-04-25 with weaknes , vag bleeding x several days , fever 102.5 , hypotension , hypoxic 84% on 4l nc , tachypnic to 30 , with labs significant for lactate 6.3 , wbc <1.0 , plt 9 , hgb 8.9 , and inr greater than lab threshold .intubated for airway protection ( abg 7.39/26.5/73.6 ) and placed on levophed . .placed on reynolds/vanc/fluc/gentamicin for neutropenic fever and thrush initially .ivc filter placed 04-26 .ct abdomen consistent with large necrotic pelvic mass - not sampled 02-12 coagulopathy .04-27 results from blood cx from w+i :04-24 picc bld cx : pseudomonas diaz to zosyn , cipro , cefepime , tardugno -- staph epi- gray to vanc04-24 peripheral bld cx : pseudomonas as above04-24 urine cx : pseudomonas as aboveabx changed to vanc , zosyn , cipro , fluc , azith .pressors weaned off by 04-27 .completed 7 days of vanc/fluc , 13/14 days of cipro/zosyn .continued to have recurrent fevers . .seen by urology who did not change stents given severe coagulopathy and worsening renal function .found to be in dic and supported with daily blood products .seen by heme and gcsf started .despite aggressive blood product repletion patient poorly responsive 02-12 alloimmunization .plt count 1 on 2016-04-29 .supported on tpn for nutrition then switched to tube feeds .developed renal failure with cr peak of 2.9.seen by renal who felt was c/w atn . .head ct done 05-04 with bilateral sah and l temporal parenchymal hematoma .also with multiple masses consistent with metastasis .placed on dilantin .neurosurgery consulted .felt secondary to low platelets with no surgical intervention indicated . .mult family meetings given poor prognosis .initially decided not to escilate care and make dnr 05-05 .then progressed to withdrawal of care 05-06 with plan to extubate 05-07 .however there was dissent among neurologists about patient 's ability to recover from the sah while awaiting family members and the patient was changed to full code .given 48 hours off sedation with out change in mental status ( last morphine was 2016-05-07 ) .transferred to mediplex rehab hospital for further work up . .on arrival to the ficu the patient was intubated and non-sedated .brief hospital course :30 yo f with metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of unknown primary who presented to osh 04-25 with pseudomonal urosepsis , vaginal bleeding from tumor extension/anti-coagulation .course complicated by sub arachnoid hemorrhages and intraparenchymal bleeds as well as potential hypotensive brain injury with poor prognosis per neurology .transferred here for second opinion on poor prognosis . .# neurologic - the patient was seen by the neurology consult service and underwent mri head which revealed lesions suspicious for metastases , possible hemorrhages , and findings consistent with hypoxic brain injury .eeg was performed and revealed encephalopathy .the patient 's neurologic exam ( performed after sedation removed >48 hours ) revealed intact brainstem function without evidence of higher cortical activity .she had some metabolic abnormalities which were corrected ( hypernatremia , hyperphosphatemia ) , but neurologic exam was unchanged .a family meeting on 2016-05-13 was held and these findings communicated with the patient 's family .final neurologic assessment was that the patient was unlikely to regain meaningful neurologic functioning .at the request of her family , she will be transferred closer to her home in wyoming , to women and infants hospital . .# respiratory failure - pt arrived on pressure support ventilation , which was changed to assist control to make patient more comfortable .she was originally intubated for airway protection , and it is felt she could likely be weaned from the ventilator although she would be extremely high risk for aspiration .due to family request to move patient to a hospital closer to home , she will remain intubated until transfer , with plan to extubate upon arrival to women and infants hospital with initiation of full palliative care and compliance of dni status . .# fevers/infection - per outside hospital records , the patient grew pseudomonas from blood and urine .at osh , she was treated with 7 days of vancomycin , as well as 13 days ( of 14-day planned course ) of ciprofloxacin and zosyn .she was intially continued on cipro/zosyn .cxr 05-11 revealed ? pneumonia vs atelectasis at the r lung base .continues to spike fever .could have still seeding of nephrostomy tube .urology at osh against pulling tube because coagulopathy and may not be able to replace .fevers also may be from head bleed , cancer , or drug .she was continued on zosyn and vancomycin to complete a >14 day course .she continued to have fevers .antibiotics were discontinued on 05-15 .no further infectious course was identified and the fevers may have been due to underlying malignant process . .# squamous cell cancer - unknown primary .the patient was seen by the oncology consult service who contacted her outside hematologist dr. pauling .upon discussion with him it was noted that the patient had progression of her disease after systemic therapy with topotecan and cisplatin .she then proceed to xrt with cisplatin which she was unable to tolerate this secondary to thrombocytopenia ( 40-50k ) .given this we were unable to offer her additional therapy. hematology/oncology service at mediplex rehab hospital confirmed her grim prognosis and expective survival in terms of weeks to months with no further available treatment . .# h/o dvt - patient with head bleed which is contraindication to anti-coagulation .ivc filter in place .patient was on pneumoboots while in hospital . .# hypernatremia - improved from osh .total body volume overloaded .water deficit 2.5 l .she was continued on free h20 boluses and d5 1/2 ns and corrected . .# acute renal failure - stable , likely 02-12 hypotension leading to atn that is slowly improving . .# access - r ij changed sterilly over wire 05-01 .# fen - tube feeds are held in route in anticipation of extubation . . .# code status :after multiple discussion with family and the doctor accepting the patient at women and infants hospital ( dr . pauling ) at ri .she was made dnr/dni and the plan is that she will be transferred to wih and extubated there upon arrival with initiation of full palliative care .the family understood this; all questions were answered and they wished to proceed .they understand that there is no icu at wih and no further advanced pulmonary support can be offered .discharge medications :1. acetaminophen 325 mg tablet sig : two ( 2 ) tablet po q4-6h ( every 4 to 6 hours ) as needed for fever or pain .2. albuterol-ipratropium 103-18 mcg/actuation aerosol sig : 06-17 puffs inhalation q2-4h ( every 2 to 4 hours ) as needed .3. calcium acetate 667 mg capsule sig : two ( 2 ) capsule po tid w/meals ( 3 times a day with meals ) .4. fentanyl citrate ( pf ) 0.05 mg/ml solution sig : 25-100 mcg injection q2h ( every 2 hours ) as needed for comfort .5. insulin regular human 100 unit/ml solution sig : 2-10 units injection asdir ( as directed ) : per sliding scale for blood sugars > 150mg/dl .6. midazolam 1 mg/ml solution sig : 1-2 mg injection q2h ( every 2 hours ) as needed for comfort .7. phenytoin sodium 50 mg/ml solution sig : one 95y ( 150 ) mg intravenous q8h ( every 8 hours ) .8. ranitidine hcl 15 mg/ml syrup sig : one 95y ( 150 ) mg po daily ( daily ) .9. polyvinyl alcohol-povidone 1.4-0.6 % dropperette sig : 01-12 drops ophthalmic qid ( 4 times a day ) .discharge disposition :extended caredischarge diagnosis :1. hypoxic brain injury2. cranial hemorrages ( sub arachnoid and parenchemal )3. pseudomonal sepsis , completed antibiotic course4. metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of unknown primary .5. thrombocytopenia6. blood loss anemiadischarge condition :intubated , stabledischarge instructions :you are being transferred to another hospital , intubated , with the plan to extubate upon arrival to women 's and infants hosptial and initiation of palliative care . .your antibiotics were stopped 2016-05-15 ( vancomycin 1000mg q24 and aztreonam 1000mg q8 ) as your micorbiology data has been negative and your course for pseudomonal sepsis has been completed .if you continue to have fevers , blood cultures should be repeated .followup instructions :as directed .