record date: 2093-10-18name:     wilson, gabrielmrn:     8514931history of present illness:  gabriel wilson is a 72-year-old croatianfemale, referred by dr. fraser for evaluation of complaints of dizziness. her daughter,who is a library manager here, accompanies her mother today. apparently, formany years, perhaps as many as five, her mother has complained of "feeling pulled"when she walks. this never occurs when lying down or sitting. it is only when she iswalking that she feels she is being pulled, either to the right, left, forward orbackward. at times, she does visibly veer when she walks. she has had one fall anumber of months ago when she broke her wrist. she has not had any subsequentfalls. there is no associated true spinning vertigo, no associated visual change,numbness, weakness, change in gait, change in speech and no headache. she actuallyfeels that over the past few weeks, it has been a little better, though prior to that, itwas a little more severe. unable to associate this with any clear intervention.unaware of any precipitating or alleviating symptoms. review of other systems notable for general fatigue. otherwise unremarkable. nochest pain, shortness of breath or abdominal pain. past medical history: hepatitis b, diabetes, hypertension, ge reflux,hyperlipidemia, depression, cataracts. medications:  aspirin, colace, cozaar, flonase, fosamax, hydrochlorothiazide,lopid, meclizine p.r.n., protonix, prozac, vioxx. family history: negative for neurologic disease. social history:  she is widowed and lives with her niece. she neither drinks norsmokes. physical examination: on exam, she is a pleasant, quiet, soft-spoken,72-year-old female. bp 140/84. cranial nerves ii through xii intact to detailed exam,except for decreased hearing on the left. on motor exam, no rigidity, no drift. goodpower throughout upper and lower extremities. she does, however, seem mildlybradykinetic diffusely. finger tapping was slow bilaterally and symmetric. amplitudeis normal for finger tapping. power in the lower extremities 5/5. sensory exam withmild vibratory loss in the toes. finger-to-nose testing intact. foot-tapping decreasedbilaterally. romberg sway. her gait is slightly wide-based, with occasional veering toeither side. she is unable to perform tandem. dtr's 2+ throughout, except for 1+ankle jerks. babinski flexor bilaterally. data: mri/mra of the brain 8/30 shows mild to moderate white matterhyperintensity in the corona radiata, centrum semiovale and moderate bilateralpontine involvement and multifocal lacunar infarcts of the lentiform nuclei, rightinternal capsule and bilateral thalami. intracranial atherosclerosis is seen involving theanterior middle cerebral arteries with a greater degree of involvement of theposterior cerebral arteries and intermittent development of moderate mid-segmentstenosis of the basilar artery. bloodwork 2/27: sma7 normal, except glucose 134. 8/30bili, total protein, albumin, globulin within normal limits. lft's normal except sgotelevated at 46. impression: 72-year-old female with diabetes, chronic hepatitis c andhypertension, complaining of basically veering of her gait and feeling unsteady. she issymptomatic only when she walks. her exam is notable for mild vibratory loss in thetoes, likely due to diabetic neuropathy, bilateral lower-extremity dysmetria and thewide-based, at times veering gait. it appears that her gait difficulties with veering  aremultifactorial, due to history of multiple lacunar infarcts and peripheral neuropathy.it does not appear that these episodes are due to transient ischemic attacks, giventhat she veered in the office while walking and stated that this was the symptom sheis concerned about.  however, given her mid-segment basilar stenosis seen on mri,she certainly could become symptomatic from this down the road, particularly if shebecame hypotensive. as she was unable to tolerate aggrenox, will try addingpersantine at a lower dose at 25 mg b.i.d., along with an aspirin per day, to see if shecan tolerate gradually increased doses of persantine. i will see her in follow up in twomonths to see how she is doing. may also consider checking cbc, given hersymptoms of fatigue and other bloodwork should these symptoms persist. hope kincaid, m.d.cc: julie fraser, m.d.hk/crane/kang