860785898 | tsh | 35239455 | | 7528735 | 6/2/2005 12:00:00 am | failure to thrive , renal failure | signed | dis | admission date: 5/30/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 4/9/2005attending: altermatt , mario m.d.admission diagnosis:acute renal failure.principal discharge diagnosis:acute renal failure.other diagnoses:right middle lobe pneumonia , copd , hematuria , acute renalfailure , hypertension , end-stage renal disease , on hemodialysis ,and coronary artery disease.brief history of present illness:this is a 57-yeare-old man with history of end-stage renaldisease , status post kidney transplant in 5/13 , aortic valvereplacement , coronary artery bypass graft , lima to lad , in7/7/005 , who is presenting here to the otea healthcare with worseninglower extremity edema , shortness of breath , and decreased urineoutput , and an increased creatinine from 3.3 the baseline to 5.3.on admission , the patient did not report that the lowerextremity edema felt worse than he normally feels at hisbaseline , however , he had developed some left upper extremityedema as well as his lower extremity edema. he also described anew shortness of breath on admission , a cough with whitishsputum , no blood in his cough. he denied dyspnea on exertion ,but did report being short of breath while lying flat , ororthopnea. he did not describe any pnd. he also reported afever on admission with some chills and sweats for two daysbefore being presented to the emergency department. he alsodescribed a decrease in his urine output one day prior toadmission and dysuria x2 days. the patient denied any nausea ,vomiting , diarrhea , chest pain or pressure. no palpitations , andno dyspnea on exertion.past medical history:significant for end-stage renal disease , aortic valve replacementin 6/24 , left buttock ulcer , also followed by plastic surgery ,hypertension , diabetes mellitus type ii , congestive heartfailure , and hypercholesterolemia.medications on admission:included cellcept 1000 mg b.i.d. , prednisone 20 mg daily ,valacyclovir 400 mg daily , calcitriol 0.25 mcg daily , metoprolol25 mg b.i.d. , bactrim single strength daily , nph 16 units q.a.m. ,18 units q.p.m. , novolog 6 units q.a.c. with sliding scale ,nexium 20 mg daily , colace 100 mg daily , aspirin 325 mg daily ,multivitamin , and tramadol 50 mg q.i.d.allergies:he reports no known drug allergies.physical examination on admission:his temperature was 97.7 , his heart rate was 93-97 , hisrespiratory rate was in the 30s , his blood pressure was 167/90 ,and his o2 saturation was 97-99% on 2 liters. in general , he wasin fairly significant distress. he had difficulty catching hisbreath. his head and neck exam is significant for equal , roundand reactive pupils. no cervical lymphedema , and no icterus.his jvp was up to about 12 cm. he did not have any carotidbruits. his cardiovascular exam was significant for rate andrhythm that were regular at 2/6 systolic ejection murmur andheard best in the right upper sternal border. he did not have s3or s4. his chest incision was clean , dry and intact. hispulmonary exam was significant for crackles bilaterally about ahalfway up his back. his abdomen was soft , nontender , andnondistended , with positive bowel sounds. incision of theabdomen was similarly clean , dry and intact. his extremitieswere significant for 3-4+ lower extremity edema , significantpitting to the thighs , and some dependent decubitus edema aswell. he had 2+ pitting edema in his left upper extremity. hehad a fistula on his right arm. he has a decubitus sacral ulcerwith a vac dressing in place on admission. neurologic exam wassignificant for alert and oriented x3. his cranial nerves wereall intact. he had no focal deficits.hospital course:1. cardiovascular: ischemia: status post cabg and avr. onadmission , we held the patient's anticoagulation for a possiblebiopsy of his kidney. we continued his lopressor at b.i.d.dosing. the patient ruled out for a myocardial infarction. hehad four-beat runs of nsvt on the day of admission , which he didnot repeat after repletion of his electrolytes. he had chestpain again on hospital day #3 overnight. he did not have any ekgchanges with his chest. he was given lopressor x1 , he ruled outonce again. the pain that he had developed was thought to belikely incisional and not cardiac. pulmonary exam: the patientdeveloped acute worsening of pulmonary status while in theobservation area at the emergency department on admission onhospital day #1. he had an increasing o2 requirement , worseningpulmonary exam , and a chest x-ray that showed pulmonary edema.he was not diuresing effectively with more than 360 mg with ivlasix , which was administered to him in the emergency department ,so renal was called urgently to see him in observation and he wassent for urgent dialysis. at dialysis , they removed greater than4 liters of fluid and the patient was patient was symptomaticallyimproved. he did continue to have lower extremity edemapost-dialysis and an oxygen requirement of 2 liters nasal cannulato maintain his oxygen saturation. he was given iv lasix 80 mgx1 on hospital day #4 with excellent urine output. his lowerextremity edema improved significantly after hospital day #4.2. renal: on admission , the patient's creatinine was 5.3. itpeaked at 6.6 and trended down to 5.1 with clear signs ofimprovement. on admission , there was no improvement in his urineoutput with large doses of iv lasix , however , and renal wasconsulted to clarify whether this was an acute rejection versusatn from toxic doses of cyclosporin. in the emergencydepartment , he was given one dose of solu-medrol 500 mg , however ,he was found to have elevated cyclosporin levels at 679 , so thiswas thought to be the likely cause of his acute renal failure andhis cyclosporin was temporarily held. since that time , on hishospital day #1 , his cyclosporin levels trended down to the pointat which there were just slightly over 100 on hospital day #3 andcyclosporin was reinitiated at lower doses. he was dialyzed onadmission with removal of 4 liters of fluid , cvm , bk , and ldhwere sent from dialysis. his creatinine improved , so furtherdialysis and biopsy were deemed unnecessary.3. id status: the patient presented with uti on admission.this was treated with levofloxacin 500 mg x1 and then 250 mgq.48h. for a course of seven days. blood cultures grew 4/4gram-negative rods , and the patient was diagnosed with urosepsis.after dialysis , the patient was treated with ceftriaxone 1 gdaily and continued on levofloxacin 250 mg q.4-8h. transplantand infectious disease was consulted who recommended ceftriaxonebe discontinued and the levofloxacin to be continued for twoweeks after discharge with repeat cultures. hsv swap from sacralwound was sent. these repeat cultures and hsv swab were allnegative , and levofloxacin was continued for two weekspostdischarge.4. fen: we held the patient's fluids. we checked his i's ando's on a daily basis with daily weights. his hyperkalemia onadmission was 6.1 , resolved with kayexalate , insulin and d50meds. he was given additional kayexalate when he came up to thefloor and his k resolved , backed down to his normal range. thepatient was kept on a renal and cardiac diet. his albumin andtotal protein were low , so a nutritional consult was called ,which optimized his nutritional status.5. endocrine: the patient had a tight glycemic control on nph16 units q.a.m. and 19 units q.p.m. , novolog 6 units q.a.c. withsliding scale , and the patient's sacral decubitus ulcer had a vacdressing in place on admission. plastics was called to addresshis vac. they took down the vac due to some leakage on admissionand he was treated with 1/4 dakin's solution and wet-to-drydressing t.i.d. on discharge , he continued on the wet-to-drydressings. he will be followed as an outpatient vna , and willhave the vac replaced by the vna as an outpatient. hishematocrit was stable throughout his hospital stay.6. prophylaxis: the patient was kept on nexium throughout hishospital stay and we held his anticoagulation for possiblebiopsy. he will resume his outpatient anticoagulation and inrchecks with his inr follow-up clinic. he was able to leave thefloor for cigarettes , and he signed an agreement suggesting thathe was going to tolerate the risk of leaving the floor for shortperiod of time even while on telemetry.on discharge , his medications included calcitriol 0.25 mcg p.o.daily , colace 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. , insulin 16 units q.a.m. , 18units q.p.m. , ketoconazole 200 mg daily , lopressor 25 mg t.i.d. ,prednisone 20 mg q.a.c. , cyclosporin 125 mg b.i.d. , tramadol 50mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. for pain , bactrim single strength one tabletp.o. daily , cellcept 1000 mg b.i.d. , valacyclovir 500 mg daily ,levofloxacin 250 p.o. every other day x2 weeks , novolog 6 unitsq.a.c. , neoral 125 mg b.i.d. , and aspirin 325 mg daily.the patient was discharged to home in stale condition.escription document: 3-5245631 emssten teldictated by: clancy , jacobattending: ramey , gayledictation id 2973351d: 7/9/05t: 7/9/05