record #560453748470127 | cbmc | 32700120 | | 8249855 | 1/30/2005 12:00:00 am | right knee effusion | signed | dis | admission date: 3/27/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/21/2005attending: redwine , kenny m.d.principal diagnoses:1. knee pain.2. chronic venous stasis.3. lithium toxicity.4. obesity.history of present illness:this is a 50-year-old female with a history of hypertension ,diabetes , obesity , as well as a schizophrenia and bipolardisorder , presents with right knee swelling , redness and pain forone week. the patient lives alone at home and has two brotherswho periodically check in on her. she was visited by her brotheryesterday and found that her right knee had been swollen red andtender for about a week. after he noted this , he brought her tothe emergency department. the patient states that the leg hasmade it impossible for her to ambulate. she denies trauma to thearea recently. she also denies fevers , chills , shortness ofbreath or chest pain. there is no nausea , vomiting , constipationor diarrhea.past medical history:1. ovarian cystadenofibroma , status post tah-bso in 1/242. obesity.3. hypertension.4. diabetes.5. hyperlipidemia.6. schizophrenia.7. bipolar disorder.8. obstructive sleep apnea , on home bipap.9. history of laparoscopy for infertility.allergies:no known drug allergies.medications on admission:1. lisinopril 10 mg daily.2. lipitor 40 mg daily.3. klonopin.4. metrogel p.o. at bedtime.5. lithium 900 mg at bedtime.6. acebutolol 200 mg daily.7. risperdal 0.5 mg at bedtime.social history:the patient lives at home alone. she smokes tobacco , but deniesethanol. she does drink several bottles of soda per day. herbrother , willard kloock , did involve in her care; his phone numberis 427-986-1973 , he can also be reached at 243-754-1828. herother brother , merrill luersen , is also involved in her care and canbe reached at 938-506-7946.physical examination:temperature 97.5 , pulse 42 , blood pressure 107/58 , respirations20 , and oxygen saturation 97%. in general , this is an obesefemale , she is spanish-speaking mostly. she appears unkempt andin discomfort somewhat because of her right knee pain. she is noacute distress. cardiovascular exam shows bradycardia , withnormal s1 and s2 , and 2/6 systolic ejection murmur heard best atthe left upper sternal border. her chest exam showed some lowsoft rumbling sounds with inspiration and expiration , otherwise ,clear to auscultation bilaterally. abdomen was distended andobese. there are positive bowel sounds , and no palpable liverand spleen. extremity exam showed uncut nails on upper and lowerextremities bilaterally. her right leg was greater in size thanher left , however , both show significant 2-3+ pitting edema. onthe right ankle area , there appears to be chronic venous stasischanges with hyperpigmented patch on the lower extremity. thereare less chronic venous stasis changes on the left lowerextremity. there was some mild erythema around the right knee.this area of redness was poorly demarcated and mildly blanching.there was painful passive motion on her right knee. neuro examwas grossly intact and nonfocal. she did have a coarse tremor inher upper and lower extremities when asked to use theseextremities for motion.diagnostic data:electrolytes were significant for a potassium of 5.8 and acreatinine of 1.6 that was raised from previous creatinine in2004 of 1.0. her liver enzymes were unremarkable. herhematocrit was 45.5. a ua done on admission was bland , however ,urine cultures grew greater than a 1000 cfu/ml of coag-negativestaphylococcus. her right knee film showed mild effusion , nofracture. this effusion was tapped and showed 20 white bloodcells , 810 red blood cells. of the white blood cells , 21% werepmns and 75% were lymphocytes. there were no crystals seen.there were no organisms seen.assessment:ms. fought is a 50-year-old female with a history of bipolardisorder , schizophrenia , obstructive sleep apnea , hypertension ,and diabetes , was admitted for one week of worsening right kneeredness , swelling and pain causing immobility.hospital course by system/problem:1. leg swelling: the differential diagnosis that was consideredfor her leg swelling included deep venous thrombosis versuscellulitis versus septic joints versus gout versus chroniclymphedema with an acute worsening. infectious causes wereconsidered less likely given the fact that the patient's whitecount was not significantly elevated , ( it was 10.5 with 75%polys , and 80% lymphs ) , and in fact that she has not had anyfever. the patient was treated empirically , however , as thisdiagnosis was unable to be ruled out initially with vancomycinand unasyn and then with levofloxacin. the patient was treatedwith therapeutic doses of heparin because of the concern of painand swelling asymmetrically of the lower extremities. thiscontinued until lower extremity doppler studies showed no deepvenous thrombosis in the right femoral or left popliteal veins.uric acid levels were checked and shown to be elevated at 8.6 andagain at 8.0. these values suggest that gout may be involved inthis problem , however , there are no crystals and the synovialfluid making this diagnosis also less likely. over her hospitalcourse , the swelling , tenderness and redness of the right kneedecreased significantly. however , the patient's left knee beganto cause her significant pain , requiring oxycodone , tylenol andlidocaine patch. because of concerning renal function with acreatinine of 1.6 from 1.0 , nsaids were held initially , however ,her creatinine trended down to 1.2 on the day of discharge , andso she will be discharged with nsaids , which are expected to helpher musculoskeletal pain. while in the hospital , she receivedphysical therapy who evaluated the patient and suggested that thepatient would benefit from continued direct physical therapy toaddress functional mobility retraining. short-terms goalsincluded ambulate 50 feet with minimal assistance withrestrictive device , and to tolerate out of bed to chair for 30minutes with reports of fatigue.2. lithium toxicity: because of the patient's coarse tremor ,bradycardia , hypotension , and the fact that she was takinglithium , encouraged her lithium level to be checked which cameback elevated at 2.7 , ( normal levels between 0.5 and 1.3 ). thislevel was concerning because lithium has a very narrowtherapeutic window. her lithium was held and she was treatedwith iv fluids , which allowed her creatinine to decrease. it wasthought that she was also somewhat dehydrated on presentation tothe emergency department. her lithium toxicity could in partexplain for her bradycardia and hypotension as well as herhypokalemia and renal failure. a psych consult was obtained toaddress the question of when and how to restart the lithium. thepsych consultant suggested to check lithium levels daily untilthey fell below 0.5 and then should restart the lithium at 300 mgat bedtime. on the day of discharge , her lithium level was at1.12. this level should be checked at the nursing facility andlithium should be restarted at 300 mg at bedtime when the levelis 0.5 or below.3. cardiovascular: from a pump standpoint , the patient washypovolemic and hypotensive on presentation to the emergencydepartment. she responded well to normal saline fluid bolusesand given a total of 3 liters over her hospital course. from arhythm standpoint , the patient's bradycardia was resolved ofeither over beta blockade or lithium toxicity. her beta-blockerwas held as well as her lithium and her heart rate improved tothe 50 and 60s. we would recommend holding the beta-blockeruntil follow up at her primary care physician's office for hernext appointment. from an ischemia standpoint , ekg was performedwhich was a poor study that showed perhaps some t-wave inversionsin avl. however , acs is unlikely at this time. the patient hadno chest pain.4. renal: acute renal failure on presentation with a creatinineof 1.6 and 1.0 is likely prerenal versus lithium toxicity versusa combination of these. a creatinine improved to 1.2 on the dayof discharge.5. endocrinology: the patient had a history of diabetesaccording to her medical records. her glucose while admittedhere was in between 90 and 132. these were random glucose draws.hemoglobin a1c was checked which came back at 6.2. at thistime , diabetes may or may not be an appropriate diagnosis for herand she should follow up with her primary care physician with afasting blood glucose test.6. infectious disease: on initial presentation , the patientpresented with hypotension in the setting of bradycardia and betablockade with decreased volume status. there was a concerninitially that this may be cellulitis and she was covered broadlywith unasyn and vancomycin. however , as she improved , and theredness and swelling decreased , she was switched to levofloxacinand committed to complete a seven-day course. she will completesix more days after discharge from the hospital of levofloxacin.7. deconditioning: as mentioned above , physical therapy wasconsulted and the patient will go to nursing facility for atemporary rehabilitation. upon discharge to her home from rehab ,home safety evaluation should take place to make sure that thepatient is okay to go back home and can give the services thatshe needs.medications on discharge:1. tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain.2. klonopin 1 mg p.o. at bedtime.3. oxycodone 5 mg to 10 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain , please holdif respiration rate is less than 12.4. risperdal 0.5 mg p.o. at bedtime.5. levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. daily for six days after the day ofdischarge from wilgeimante eycis health on 0/19/05.6. ibuprofen 600 mg q.6h. p.r.n. pain.discharge disposition:the patient was discharged in stable condition to a nursingfacility. please draw blood for lithium level checks daily untilit is below 0.5 , at which time , she should be restarted onlithium 300 mg p.o. at bedtime. she will follow up with herprimary care physician , dr. aurelio gilberto hencheck at li county hospital , phone number is 156-903-7650. a messagewas left in the voice mail of her physician's office to scheduleher an appointment and to contact her brother , oren dad , atphone number 427-986-1973 or 683-173-8613 , or daren perella at990-786-9092 to inform them at when the appointment will be. itwas requested that she be seen within two to three weeks.escription document: 3-9332178 emssten telcc: colby kopan m.d.comho street , sas co lareox , utah 34863anacc: raul nagelschmidt mdlem ca chison oakdictated by: beker , anibalattending: beil , lymandictation id 1150769d: 6/17/05t: 6/17/05[report_end]