admission date :10/30/2006discharge date :11/03/2006service :rnmhpi :62 yo m w / iga nephropathy , developmental delay , began hd 7/31 .was seen in dialysis on day of admission and was seen to have &quot; raccoon eyes &quot; and hd staff was worried about sending home .head ct w / o bleed .trauma series normal .pt denies abuse or loc associated w / fall , but has noticed several recent falls .recent neuro w / u including eeg , carotid u / s , head ct ( old stroke ) , dobutamine-mibi ( fixed defect and small inferolateral reversible ) were all negative .notablehospital course :1. falls a pt consult was obtained to assist with ambulation .a social work consult was also obtained and deemed that the patient has appropriate support at home and is safe at home .the patient was placed on telemetry and had no telemetry events while an inpatient .he was also seen by the electrophysiology service , his pacemaker was interrogated and working fine , with no signs of recent ventricular arrhythmia .the patient his undergoing a tte prior to discharge to rule out a thrombus .his tte showed ef 45-50% , moderate clvh , abnormal diastolic function , moderate mr , moderate tr and severe lae .there was a question of ionfiltrative cardiomyopathy , and the patient underwent abdominal fat pad biopsy to assess for amyloidosis .he also currently has an spep / upep/beta 2 microglobulin / ace test that are currently pending .these should be followed up as an outaptient .he had carotid ultrasound studies 3 months ago that were normal without evidence for stenosis .2. renal - cont mwf hd ; electrolytes have been stable .perhaps his recent falls are related to orthostatic hypotension after dialysis .3. cv -the pt has a small area of reversible ischemia on recent mibi , and has troponins persistently elevated in the setting of his renal disease .his troponins remained lower than his baseline levels and there was no suspicion of acs causing syncope .he continued on his zocor , cozaar and labetalol .we will now hold his coumadin given his recent falls and bleeding risk .his aspirin was restarted prior to discharge .4. endo - tsh was 4.7 and normal .5. heme :the patient has a macrocytosis .his b12 level was 418 and normal .he does have a history of b12 deficiency in the past , and evidence for peripheral neuropathy ble which may also be contributing to his recent falls . ? etoh6. psych :watch for etoh wd .the patient had no signs of alcohol withdrawal .his serum toxicology screen was negative .7. pulm :copd and r pleural effusion , off oxygen and stable .8. gu :r complex renal cyst , bladder diverticula .the patient will need a follow up ultrasound to further evaluate these incidental findings seen on imaging upon admission .9. id :the patient &apos;s urinalysis was normal .he had no fecal leukocytes .a c.difficile test is negative on prelim read , however very low suspicion given no recent antibiotic use .