887942261 | ccgh | 21153172 | | 5663254 | 2/6/2006 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 2/20/2006 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: rabal , lonnie m.d.interim dictation through september , 2006chief complaint: chest pain.history of present illness: this patient is a 69-year-old womanwith diabetes , hypertension , congestive heart failure ,rheumatologic overlap syndrome with rheumatoidarthritis/dermatomyositis , who was admitted for chest wall pain.of note , two weeks prior to admission , the patient reports a fallduring which she hit her chest on the floor. upon admission , thereasons for the patient's chest pain were unclear. her cardiacenzymes were negative and her ekg was unchanged. chest x-ray wasnegative for infiltrate. however , soon after the patient wasadmitted to the floor she had high fevers and grew outmethicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus from her blood.past medical history:1. dermatomyositis diagnosed in 2006.2. insulin-dependent diabetes complicated by neuropathy.3. hypertension.4. history of graves' disease status post radiotherapy.5. rheumatoid arthritis/rheumatologic overlap syndrome.6. status post sbo.7. b12 deficiency.8. idiopathic cardiomyopathy ( ejection fraction 45% ).allergies: penicillin , aspirin , codeine , zocor.social history: the patient lives alone in ent saint shehas a home vna two times per week. she is a former smoker , butdenies iv drug use and ethanol use.studies:1. transthoracic echocardiogram performed on march , 2006revealed a left ventricle normal in size. estimated ejectionfraction was 55% ( previous echocardiograms had showed an ejectionfraction of 45% ). there were no regional wall motionabnormalities. there was no significant pericardial effusion.no vegetations were seen.2. transesophageal echocardiogram performed on may , 2006revealed a normal left ventricular wall thickness with noregional wall motion abnormalities , trace mitral regurgitationwas seen. there was no evidence of valvular vegetations orabscesses.3. a ct scan of the chest without contrast on august , 2006 showeda slight soft tissue prominence at the costosternal joint , but noabscess and no bone destruction was seen. there was no drainablefluid collection or bone destruction seen on the scan. mri onmay , 2006 revealed a linear low signal within the sternumsuspicious for a fracture with adjacent rim-enhancing collectionextending both anterior and posterior to the sternum , suspiciousfor an abscess. hematoma is also possible.hospital course:1. cardiovascular: the patient had a negative rule outmyocardial infarction protocol. she was maintained on herantihypertensive medications during her hospitalization and shewas hemodynamically well controlled. because the patient hadmrsa bacteremia upon admission and because the patient hadelevated esr and crp , endocarditis was entertained as a possiblediagnosis. tte and tee , however , showed no vegetations on thepatient's valves. the patient's crp on may , 2006 was 135 , thepatient's esr on november , 2006 was 90.2. infectious disease: the patient had fevers upon admission togreater than 101. initial blood cultures revealed four of fourbottles to be mrsa bacteremia. despite treatment withvancomycin , the patient also had positive blood cultures on august , 2006. at the time of this dictation , the patient had negativeblood cultures from september , 2006 through march , 2006. she had abandemia to 6 on admission. it was not obvious initially whatthe source was of the patient's mrsa bacteremia. given herelevated esr and crp , endocarditis was entertained as adiagnosis. however , both tte and tee showed no evidence ofvegetations on the valves. the patient had a soft tissueprominence on examination over her sternal manubrial joint on theright side of her sternum. the original ct scan showed a softtissue prominence but no fluid collection. however , mri on may , 2006 showed evidence of an abscess or hematoma in the rightsubpectoral region. the patient had a ct-guided aspirationperformed on february , 2006 and 15 ml of pus was removed. thedrain was left in place. studies from this fluid were pending atthe time of this dictation. however , the thoracic surgeryservice was consulted for possible debridement of the wound.infectious disease service was also consulted concerning thetiming for the placement of the picc line , as well as theduration of the patient's vancomycin.3. musculoskeletal: chest x-ray showed evidence of an old leftshoulder fracture.4. rheumatology: the patient was maintained on prednisone fordermatomyositis.5. endocrine: the patient was maintained on her home dose ofnph. on this dose , the patient's blood sugars were wellcontrolled. the patient's tsh was measured a6 at 5.129 with a t4of 7.2 and a thbr of 1.27. the patient's dose of synthroid wasnot altered.6. hematology: the patient was anemic on admission withhematocrits ranging from 24-29. b12 level on november , 2006 was199. she was given supplementation , both orally and im , and onnovember , 2006 her b12 level was 842. she was also found to haveboth iron deficiency anemia and anemia of chronic disease. ironstudies from september , 2006 revealed an iron less than assay , a tibcof 202 , and ferritin 182. the patient was started on oral ironsupplementation during her hospitalization.7. skin: the patient was noted to have excoriations and openlesions on her legs , which were likely due to itching. thepatient was given bactroban. all of these excoriations wereclean , dry and intact. there was no evidence of infection.9. neurologic: the patient was maintained on amitriptyline andneurontin during her hospital stay.10. renal: on november , 2006 , the patient had a creatinine to1.7. it is the feeling of the team that this is due togentamicin toxicity. at one point during the patient'shospitalization , gentamicin had been added for synergistic effectwith vancomycin. gentamicin had been added as the patient wascontinuing to spike fevers despite vancomycin treatment. whenthe patient's creatinine began to rise , gentamicin wasdiscontinued. creatinine will likely resolve with time withoutgentamicin administration in the future.a component of the arf was due to repeated gadolidium exposure from repeatmri of sternum and a hemodynamic with worsening when acei reinitiated.physical examination: march , 2006: in general , the patient isfatigued and somnolent. at multiple times during the patient'shospitalization , she became difficult to arouse. upon touchingher sternum , however , the patient opened her eyes and was alertand oriented. this seems to be her baseline behavior. there wasno lymphadenopathy. cardiovascular exam revealed regular rateand rhythm , normal s1 , s2. no murmurs , rubs or gallops. thepatient had bilateral anterior chest wall pain to mild palpationat the t3 level. overlying the skin there was no erythema orwarmth. however , there was a fluctuant mass underneath the skinsurface. the patient's lungs were clear to auscultationbilaterally , but she had shallow respirations due to pain on deepbreaths. her abdominal exam was soft and nontender. examinationof her extremities revealed multiple excoriations that wereclean , dry , and intact. although the patient was somnolent attimes and difficult to arouse , she was alert and oriented x3 andher neurologic exam was nonfocal. it appears that the patient'sexcessive tiredness and excessive sleeping is her baselinebehavior. when the patient needed to be awake and oriented toperform certain tasks , such as getting an mri , she was able to doso. moreover , when she was witnessed interacting with her son ,she was more alert.code status: full code.consults:1. infectious disease ( mickey vesley , infectious disease fellow ).2. thoracic surgery.dr. burt eldridge conedy will dictate the remainder of the patient'shospital course , including his disposition and dischargemedications.escription document: 7-0983236 pssten teldictated by: matta , alattending: charles christoper finchum , m.d. uf2dictation id 4409011d: 11/8/06t: 11/8/06