994951372 | cmhmc | 55458020 | | 5912058 | 2/7/2006 12:00:00 am | weakness | signed | dis | admission date: 7/15/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/2/2006attending: porowski , jarrod m.d.principal diagnosis:failure to thrive.other diagnoses:marfan syndrome , migraine , restrictive lung disease , diabetesmellitus , history of aortic dissection , and opioid abuse.history of present illness:this is a 59-year-old woman with multiple medical problemsincluding marfan syndrome , restrictive lung disease , and diabeteswho presented with failure to thrive at home. she was seen byher vna on the day of admission who was worried about herdeclining clinical picture including lethargy and poorresponsiveness and the decision was made in conjunction with thepcp to admit. on admission , the patient is complaining ofchronic hip and leg pain that she describes as sciatic leg. shewas recently discharged from hsumbea medical after beingadmitted for pain control and opioid addiction. she was seen bythe psychiatry team there who thought that she has also hadsignificant anxiety components and she was started there onsuboxone as needed for pain given it has less potential forabuse. she was also followed by the pain clinic and had beenusing fentanyl patches.past medical history:marfan syndrome with aortic insufficiency and mitral valveregurgitation. she is status post mitral valve replacements witha st. jude valve , also migraines , restrictive lung disease , and ahistory of a subdural hematoma in 1990 and 2002. she hasradiologic evidence of an old left-sided cva , diabetes mellitus ,history of aortic dissection , she is on 4 l of home oxygen ,glaucoma , gerd , status post pacemaker placement , subduralevacuation , question hiatal hernia. ev repair.admission medications:clarinex 5 mg daily , lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. , duragesic patch 12mcg per hour , digoxin 0.25 mg daily , coumadin 2 mg daily , fosamaxweekly , glyburide 2.5 mg daily , tylenol with codeine p.r.n. ,lipitor 10 mg daily , lidoderm , ms contin 15 mg b.i.d. , oxybutynin5 mg daily , protonix 40 mg daily , zoloft 25 mg daily.social history:tobacco use in the past about 14 years two packs per day , noalcohol , no recreational drug use.family history:no known family history of marfan. it may be mild disease in asibling. she has a sister who is also involved in her care.contact information for the sister is the e-mail addresslzoctclx@aeo.pqf.allergies:tetracycline analogs unknown reaction , nitrofurantoin unknownreaction , ampicillin unknown reaction , quinidine unknownreaction , morphine excessive somnolence , sulfa drug hives ,erythromycins unknown reaction , ciprofloxacin hives. accordingto the patient , she has taken ampicillin without trouble in thepast.physical examination on admission:temperature 98 , pulse 68 , blood pressure 90/60 , respiratory rate16 , satting 91% on 2 l. she was in no acute distress. she wastalkative. her mucous membranes are moist. cranial nerves iithrough xii are intact. pupils were small. neck: her jvp wasflat. cardiovascular: regular rate and rhythm with occasionalectopy. respiratory: clear to auscultation with bibasilar ralesbilaterally. abdomen: soft , nontender , nondistended.extremities: no edema. neurologic: alert and oriented x3.skin was flaky. she had ridging in her nails.admission laboratories:notable for sodium 142 , potassium 3.7 , chloride 93 , bicarbonate40 , bun 23 , creatinine 0.8 , glucose 139 , calcium 8.7 , alt 85 , ast88 , t. bili 0.9 , alkaline phosphatase 70 , albumin 4.0 , ptt 36 ,inr 2.1 , digoxin level was 2.5 , white count 7.8 , hematocrit 34.6.chest x-ray moderate-to-severe cardiac enlargement , tortuousaorta , evidence of prior cardiac surgery , left lower lobeparenchymal opacification right base , no significant change frombaseline. ekg was within normal limits. there were no signs ofheart failure and the faint right lower lobe opacity wassuggestive of vessel crowd/atelectasis.hospital course by system:consults: she was followed by her outpatient cardiologist , dr.wittler , e-mail address qdwgql@wnzlnued.fvf. his phone number is688-147-0749. ga woodri health beeper is 94654. for psychiatry , thecontact person is herb safa . can be paged through thecockebi-erd university of medical center paging system.1. neurologic: this is a patient with chronic pain syndrome ,plus or minus history of narcotic addiction and recent detox atsaddpeace and likely abused/overuse of narcotics prior tothis admission at home. the plan was to treat her without usingnarcotics. she was maintained on tylenol , ibuprofen , tramadol ,clonazepam , and zyprexa. on 10/27/06 , she fell in her room andhit her head on the side of the bed/commode. she denied any lossof consciousness. she does not remember the event. she wasalert and oriented x2. she was given a head ct , which showed noacute intracranial abnormality , no hemorrhage , infarct , mass , ormidline chest. she did have some mild-to-moderate ischemic andinvolutional changes and she had evidence of a prior craniotomyon the left. slight asymmetry of the sulci versible since 7/25 .ventricles unchanged and within normal limits. she was seen bythe neurology service. they suggested continuing to follow herneurological exam checking a lipid profile and involving physicaltherapy in her care. on their neuro exam , they found that shehad a normal affect , slow procity and tone , a tendency to looseher chain of thought. cranial nerves ii through xii intact. 4/5weakness in the left quad and right hamstrings muscles otherwise5/5 throughout. upgoing toe on the right and muted on the left.otherwise reflexes 2 throughout bilateral sensation and they wereunable to walk the patient at that time.2. psych: she was seen by the psych service here. speech ,appearance , behavior and her initial mental status examination:appearance and behavior , he was slightly disheveled wearinghospital gown , supine in bed , calm , some pmr. speech was slow attimes and normal volume and tone. mood was euthymic. affectrestricted. thought content , denied auditory hallucinations ,visual hallucinations , suicidality , homicidality , however , shedid report that she had auditory and visual hallucinations thenight preceding the examination. her thought process wascircumstantial. her insight and judgment was impaired. she wasoriented to place , name , and time. memory was 3/3 at 0 minutes ,0/3 at 3 minutes , and 2/3 with multiple choice. her language wasfluent. she knew the order of recent presidents. theirimpression was that she had an abnormal cognitive exam includingshort-term memory and concentration deficits. recent auditoryand visual hallucinations and delusions in the setting of herelevated digoxin level and recent falls they did recommendcontinued hospitalization and then rehabilitation.axis i: multifactorial acute delirium and depression and opioidabuse by history.axis ii: deferred.axis iii: past medical history as described above.axis iv: severe.axis v: 30.they recommended treating the underlying causes of delirium ,which did improve during the hospital stay using zyprexa 5 mgp.o. at bedtime , p.r.n. klonopin with a slow taper. she had a ctof the cervical spine without contrast. this showed cervicalspondylosis with reversal of normal cervical lordosis. noevidence of fracture and left c4 , c5 foraminal lesion. c1through c4 vertebral bodies were intact. no disc herniation ,central foraminal stenosis at c5-c6 and the c7-t1 wasunremarkable.cardiovascular: pump: she has a history of aortic rootdissection. her echo in the past was consistent with aortic rootdilatation , stable. she is maintained on coumadin for hervalves. her goal inr is 2.5 to 3.5. since she wassubtherapeutic at admission she was maintained on lovenox untilher inr became therapeutic. her goal inr is 2.5 to 3.5. hercoumadin doses were adjusted daily during her hospital stay andwill continue to need to be adjusted. she will need to continueto have her inr checked daily and her dose generally has beenbetween 3.5 and 3.75 mg per day. this will need to continue to beadjusted and the goal should be the higher end of 2.5 to 3.5.rhythm: she had a pacemaker placed in the past secondary to asecond-degree av block. she was continued on her nadolol. herdigoxin level was held since it was supratherapeutic at admissionand then restarted at 0.125 mg per day. her digoxin level shouldbe followed at the skilled nursing facility. ischemia: she hasno history of coronary artery disease. she is on lipitor athome. she was maintained on zocor 20 mg here and she was not onaspirin per dr. mctigue .endocrine: she has a history of diabetes mellitus. she wasmaintained on her glyburide and she refused to have any insulinduring this admission.gi: she has a history of gerd. she is on protonix at home. shewas maintained on nexium during her hospital stay. she was alsogiven a bowel regimen given her narcotics use.urology: she had a history of recent urinary retention in thesetting of narcotic use as well as taking a medication forurinary incontinence. a urine culture taken on 10/26/06 grew outgreater than 100 , 000 colonies of e. coli that was pansusceptible. she does have multiple medication allergies , butshe was started on ampicillin since she has taken this in thepast without difficulty.pain: she was seen by the pain service inhouse. they commentedthat she had whole body pain , but was having difficultyself-medicating appropriately. suggested that she would be in anenvironment where her medications could be controlled. theyrecommended starting her on cymbalta , generic name is duloxetine.they recommended starting at 30 mg at bedtime and titrating upgradually to 60 mg b.i.d. as tolerated. they also recommended alidoderm patch to the tender area holding narcotics and they willbe happy to see this patient again once she is discharged.code: she is full code.prophylaxis: she was on coumadin , lovenox when her coumadin wassubtherapeutic , and she was on a ppi.physical examination on discharge:she was afebrile pulse ranging from 66 to 72. blood pressureranging from 96 to 110/60 to 70 , respiratory rate 18 to 20 ,satting 93%-98% on 4 l. general: well appearing , in no acutedistress. pulmonary: she had crackles at the bases bilaterally.cardiovascular: regular rate and rhythm with occasional ectopy.loud mechanical click. 2/6 systolic ejection murmur. jvp isabout 8 cm. abdomen: soft , nontender , positive bowel sounds.extremities: she has trace edema bilaterally.discharge laboratories:sodium 139 , potassium 4.1 , chloride 91 , co2 43 , bun 11 ,creatinine 0.6 , glucose 181 , calcium 9.1 , magnesium 1.4 , digoxinlevel 0.6 , white blood cell count 5.96 , hematocrit 35.1 ,platelets 252 , 000. inr 3.5 , ptt 51.9.discharge medications:tylenol 1 g q. 4h. p.r.n. pain and headache , albuterol nebulizer2.5 mg nebulizer q. 4h. p.r.n. shortness of breath and wheezing ,amoxicillin 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. for a total of 8 additional dosesstarting this evening of 8/21/06 , clonazepam 1 mg p.o. b.i.d.p.r.n. for anxiety , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. daily should beadjusted as needed based on levels , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. , glyburide 2.5 mg p.o. daily , ibuprofen600 mg p.o. q. 6h. p.r.n. pain , milk of magnesia 30 ml p.o. dailyfor constipation , nadolol 60 mg p.o. daily holding for a systolicblood pressure below 100 or heart rate below 55 , timolol maleate0.25% one drop each eye daily , potassium slow release 40 meqdaily , pepto-bismol suspension 30 ml p.o. q.i.d. upset stomach ,tramadol 50 mg p.o. q. 6h. p.r.n. for pain , zyprexa 2.5 mg p.o.b.i.d. p.r.n. agitation , latanoprost one drop each eye q.p.m. ,brimonidine tartrate one drop each eye q. 8h. , zydis 5 mgsublingual at bedtime , lidoderm 5% patch topical daily , maaloxtablets one to two tablets p.o. p.r.n. q. 6h. for upset stomach ,duloxetine 30 mg p.o. at bedtime , lipitor at 10 mg p.o. daily ,protonix 40 mg p.o. daily.follow-up appointment:she has a follow-up appointment with dr. moxham on 1/26/06 at3:30 p.m. she will also need follow up with dr. harken to bearrange.this patient will be going to ma mainery ieldstrict medical center minnesotato do:1. inr: her inr goal is 2.5 to 3.5 prefer the higher end ofthat for her mechanical valves. she will need daily inr checksgiven that she is not in a steady state. the likely dose ofcoumadin need to be 3.5 to 3.75 mg per day.2. for her uti , she needs an additional eight doses ofamoxicillin to complete her course of treatment.3. per the pain team , her duloxetine , which is now at 30 mg atbedtime can be titrated as high as 60 mg b.i.d. as needed.escription document: 5-9865696 emssten telcc: manci community hospitalshingwa rich sterlka , oklahoma 23855dictated by: destro , garlandattending: evangelista , olliedictation id 9357080d: 8/21/06t: 8/21/06