record date: 2095-05-10name:     upham, zeldamrn:      9656797patient is here for a follow-up.  patient has returned from her trip to hong kong.  saysthat it was a bit stifling, because she cannot drive and was dependent on other peoplefor transportation.still has severe right shoulder pain.  still also complaining of left jaw pain, that isworse when she has to open her mouth very widely.  reviewed x-rays, which werenegative for fracture of frontal facial bones, and did not reveal obvious abnormality inthe tmj area.  has yet to receive an appointment from dr. vann for thisshoulder pain.patient was afraid to try the vioxx, because she was told by the pharmacist that shecould not take it with ibuprofen. i explained to her that she should take the vioxx inplace of the ibuprofen and she understands.  is not willing to try flexeril. patient spent approximately 20 minutes describing her dissatisfaction and difficultinteractions with her children.  has not asked for more valium.  has never beeninterested in counseling prior to today.  did not become tearful like she has in thepast.  asked for refill of sublingual nitroglycerin.  prescription apparently was given to herlast spring.  complains also of upper chest wall tenderness.  no clear to me whatcauses her to take the sublingual nitroglycerine, but says when she takes it, it relievesher symptoms.  i have asked her if this pain is ever exertional, or is the same painthat is reproducible when she touches her chest.  the patient seems to label her chestwall pain as the same as pain that she gets with exertion.  problems: as per lmr.medications: as per lmr.allergies: as per lmr.physical examination: wd/wn female in nad. blood pressure 150/80.pulse 80 and regular.  weight 152 pounds.  lungs: clear bilateral breath sounds. cor: rrr. s1 and s2 without murmurs noted.  extremities: no lower extremityedema.  soreness over posterior right upper trapezius.  full range of motion ofshoulders. no tenderness over ac joints.  chest wall tenderness over superior aspectof sternum and its border on left.  no masses or deformity noted.assessment and plan:  (1)  chest pain: certainly overdue for a follow-up with her cardiologist, dr. hunter     mccarthy.  referral done.  also referred sublingual nitroglycerin.(2)  elevated blood pressure.  better than last visit, but remains slightly elevated.      at last visit, patient was reluctant to start a beta blocker.  think she may need     this at future visit.  will also refer back to her cardiologist.(3)  elevated lipids, last checked last year. several medications that patient appears     to be sensitive to side effects.  at next visit, will give lab slip to repeat fasting     profile. positive checkup.  would probably benefit from lipid lowering.(4)  leg cramps.  toward end of visit, patient also complained of more than 25     years of leg cramps.  unable to take quinine because of allergic reaction.      patient already takes valium p.r.n. and i am reluctant to start any other     anxiolytics.  will check electrolytes and calcium at next visit. (5)  history of sciatica.  patient states in past that she has received steroid injection     for her lower back pain, which resolved.  will simply follow with vioxx, which     will hopefully help other pains that patient is experiencing.  also continue with     her rheumatologist, dr. solomon, who has followed her chronic fibromyalgia and     chronic low back pain.return to clinic with me in six to eight weeks. addendum: patient's referral was receiving by dr. vann's office and they tellme she should be able to get an appointment for 6/95.  helen whitehead, m.d.hw/warren/stark