305434324 | rcmh | 24774612 | | 329811 | 3/8/1996 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | unsigned | dis | admission date: 1/5/1996 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 2/3/1996principal discharge diagnosis: coronary artery disease andmixed mitral valve diseasehistory of the present illness: ms. reda is an 87 year-oldwoman with a history of coronaryartery disease , mitral regurgitation and multiple sclerosis. shehas been complaining of chest pain and pressure on exertion as wellas dyspnea on exertion associated with limitation of activity andincreasing sublingual nitroglycerin use for the six to seven monthsprior to admission. of note , the patient developed atrialfibrillation , atrial flutter back in october , 1995. anechocardiogram at that time demonstrated an ejection fraction of40% , inferior hypokinesis , moderate mitral regurgitation , and aleft atrial size of 6.1 centimeters. the patient requiredhospitalization in october , 1996 , for congestive heart failure. shereturned to the hospital in february , 1996 , with complaints of chestpain at rest and shortness of breath. she was ruled out formyocardial infarction at tol hospital and transferred toana vinerl hospital , where she refused cardiaccatheterization. echocardiogram at that time demonstrated anejection fraction of 45% , inferior , posterior and anterior septalhypokinesis , mild to moderate mitral stenosis and moderate mitralregurgitation. again , there was left atrial enlargement measuredat 6.1 centimeters. the patient returned home and was doing welluntil february , 1996 , when she developed headache , chest pain andshortness of breath. she again presented to beth's community memorial hospital whereshe was found to be in acute pulmonary edema. she was stabilizedand transferred to crithouse county medical center for furthermanagement.past medical history: significant for coronary artery disease ,status post anterior myocardial infarction.mitral regurgitation. mitral stenosis. atrial fibrillation.hypertension. hypothyroidism. gastroesophageal reflux disease.peptic ulcer disease. normocytic anemia. polymyalgia rheumatica.history of left humeral fracture. she is status post appendectomy ,cholecystectomy , and laser therapy for retinal disease of the righteye.allergies: erythromycin , which causes vomiting and hypertension ,as well as to sulfa drugs which cause vomiting. shehas a possible allergy to penicillin as well.medications on admission: synthroid 100 micrograms p.o. q.d.;lasix 40 milligrams p.o. q.d.; axid 150milligrams p.o. b.i.d.; aspirin 325 milligrams p.o. q.d.;prednisone 5 milligrams p.o. q.d.; digoxin 0.125 milligrams p.o.q.d.; vasotec 5 milligrams p.o. b.i.d.; zocor 10 milligrams p.o.q.d.; lopressor 25 milligrams p.o. q.i.d.; isordil 10 milligramsp.o. t.i.d.; coumadin alternating 1 and 2 milligrams q.d. ontransfer , the patient was also on intravenous heparin andnitropaste.social history: she is widowed and retired. she has no smokingor alcohol history.physical examination: she is in atrial fibrillation at a rate of83. her blood pressure is 100/60 and is 95%on room air. heent: significant for upper and lower dentureswithout any oropharyngeal lesions. neck: supple with 2+ carotidpulses and no bruits. lungs: bibasilar crackles. cardiovascular:irregularly irregular rate and rhythm. normal s1/s2. iii/viholosystolic murmur radiating from the apex to the axilla. abdomen:soft , nontender , obese. extremities: without cyanosis , clubbingor edema. there are varicosities in bilateral lower extremitieswith minimal varicosities over the thigh areas. there is bilateralknee swelling. pedal pulses are 1+ bilaterally. neurological:nonfocal.laboratory data: bun is 35 , creatinine 1.5. white blood cell count8.3. hematocrit 32. pt 11.9 , ptt 28.4.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the jeffganlanda py docweli skiffle community hospital cardiology service , where shewas maximized medically. the patient underwent cardiaccatheterization on january , 1996 , where she was noted to haveright coronary artery stenosis in the mid portion which was 50% anddistally had 80%. finally , 90% with subtotal occlusion after theposterior descending artery. the left anterior descending arteryhad 40% stenosis after diagonal 1. diagonal 1 itself had 90%stenosis in the mid portion. the left circumflex had a 70%stenosis at the mid portion and another 70% stenotic area at thedistal portion. left ventricular ejection fraction was estimatedat 45%. inferior hypokinesis was noted as was 3-4+ mitralregurgitation. right atrial pressures were 6 , right ventricle was52/10 , pulmonary artery 52/22 , with mean of 33 , pulmonary capillarywedge pressure was 27 and left ventricle was 160/16. the patientwas evaluated by the cardiac surgical service for coronary arterybypass grafting and replacement of her mitral valve. on march , 1996 , the patient was taken to the operating room where sheunderwent coronary artery bypass grafting times four with saphenousvein graft to posterior descending artery , saphenous vein graft toobtuse marginal one , saphenous vein graft to left anteriordescending artery , diagonal one and to left anterior descendingartery. she also had mitral valve replacement with 31 millimeterhancock. the patient tolerated the procedure well and wastransferred postoperatively to the cardiac intensive care unit onnitroglycerin , dopamine drip. she was weaned to extubate withoutdifficulty. she was restarted on captopril and digoxin as well ascoumadin. the patient had minimal response to diuretics ,associated with a rise in her creatinine to 1.9. the captopril wasdiscontinued and the creatinine returned again to 1.3. althoughthe chest x-ray demonstrated small bilateral pleural effusions , thepatient did not require aggressive diuresis initially as she hadexcellent oxygenation on room air. of note the patient was notrestarted on lopressor as her blood pressures remained in the90-100 range. the patient was , however , started on her prednisoneat 5 milligrams p.o. q.d. as well as on her synthroid. chest tubesand invasive monitoring were discontinued early in the patient'shospital course and she was transferred to the floor onpostoperative day number four. the patient was followed byphysical therapy and occupational therapy for progression of hermobility. she was determined to benefit from intensiverehabilitation at a facility.condition on discharge: the patient was ambulating withassistance. she was tolerating a regulardiet. she was seen to be in atrial fibrillation but ventricularresponse was well controlled in the 60s to 70s. of note , herelectrocardiogram demonstrated persistent right bundle branch blockas well as a left anterior fascicular block. although the patienthad been receiving more than her normal doses of coumadin , her inrhad not reached the therapeutic range. she was , however ,therapeutic on heparin.disposition: the patient will be transferred to a facility forintensive conditioning and rehabilitation. there shewill continue to receive her heparin until she is therapeutic onher coumadin. coumadin dosing will be handled by primary caredoctor , dr. corey updegraff , or a physician at the rehabilitationcenter. dr. turks 's number is 250-940-9571. the goal inr is 2to 2.5. the patient will also require follow-up chest x-rays asprior to discharge , her chest x-ray demonstrated bilateral pleuraleffusions which were small and were not compromising herrespiration at all.discharge medications: tylenol #3 one to two tablets p.o. q.3-4h.p.r.n. pain; digoxin 0.125 milligrams p.o.q.d.; colace 100 milligrams p.o. t.i.d. while taking tylenol #3;lasix 80 milligrams p.o. q.d. to be continued initially but may bediscontinued at the discretion of the primary care or cardiologyphysicians , pending the resolution of the pleural effusions and herrespiratory status; synthroid 150 micrograms p.o. q.d. the patientwill require thyroid function tests in four weeks. multivitaminone tablet p.o. q.d.; coumadin , dose to be determined by thepatient's inr , again the goal is 2 to 2.5. the patient received 4milligrams on september , and 3 milligrams on september , and herinr on september is 1.3. axid 150 milligrams p.o. b.i.d.; k-dur10 meq p.o. q.d. , potassium will also need to be monitored whileshe is on the lasix; intravenous heparin 800 units per hour with aptt goal of 50-60. the patient's ptt today on this dosing is 54.follow-up: the patient should follow-up with dr. kale in four tosix weeks , with dr. nicklas in two weeks , and with dr.etheredge in one to two weeks.dictated by: caleb polashek , m.d. fp11attending: johnathan n. rehler , m.d. qf7fs721/9446batch: 7950 index no. s6bwed7kf1 d: 6/13/96t: 6/13/96