record #937933490679245 | ah | 46490049 | | 1009964 | 1/24/2005 12:00:00 am | syncope | signed | dis | admission date: 1/18/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/30/2005attending: clibon , alec m.d.service: ntcmh internal medicineadmission diagnosis: recurrent syncope.principal discharge diagnosis: cardiac amyloidosis ,hypertension , coronary artery disease , left popliteal dvt.operations and procedures: none.other procedures not done in the operating room: picc lineplacement on 7/23/05 . history of present illness: the patient is a 75-year-old african-american woman with chronic renal insufficiency , coronaryartery disease , and diabetes and recent admissions for syncopewho was admitted after being found unresponsive and blue with asystolic blood pressure in the 80s in the bathroom of her nursinghome. her systolic blood pressure came up to 100 withoutintervention , but she was sent to ster valley general hospital er for further evaluation. in the er , her head andspine ct was negative , her chest x-ray showed right effusion andher cardiac enzymes were elevated with a troponin of 0.50. shewas given lovenox , zofran , and aspirin and admitted for furthermanagement.past medical history: coronary artery disease , diabetes ,cerebrovascular accidents , cortical blindness , hypertension ,anemia , monoclonal gammopathy , left upper extremitythrombophlebitis.medications at nursing home: colace , nexium , senna , oxycodonep.r.n. , aspirin , plavix , lopressor , lipitor , and nph insulin.allergies: penicillin , sulfa and propoxyphene.admission physical examination: temperature 98.4 , blood pressure110/80 , pulse 92 , respirations 95% on room air. the patient wasalert and oriented x1 , she was just alert and oriented to person.her neck vein showed a jvp less than 8 cm. her chest was clearto auscultation but decreased breath sounds on her right basewere noted. she had regular rate and rhythm. abdomen was softwith bowel sounds , nontender. extremities remarkable for 2+pitting edema , which were symmetric.remarkable labs on admission: bun 67 , creatinine 2.6 , whiteblood cell count 6.2 , hematocrit 44 , platelets 136 , bnp 880 ,troponin 0.5.pertinent radiologic studies during admission: ct scan to rulepulmonary embolus on 7/7/05 was negative. multiple chestx-rays showed unchanged right pleural effusion , which was smalland not amenable for thoracentesis. ecg showed normal sinusrhythm at 90 beats per minutes , low voltage , incomplete rightbundle-branch block , left axis deviation , q-waves inferior andanterior , no st depressions or elevations. this was nosignificant change from ekg that was done on 0/1/05 .  lowerextremity ultrasound on 6/17/05 showed left popliteal veinthrombosis.hospital course by system:1. cardiovascular: the patient had troponin elevations duringthis hospitalization , the highest being 0.8. this was initiallythought to be consistent with a non st elevation. however ,patient had no ekg changes. it was also noted that the patienthad similar elevations of her troponin and was recently admittedto an outside hospital. she was initially continued on cardiacregimen of aspirin , plavix , and lopressor. on 6/17/05 , thepatient had an episode of hypotension with systolic bloodpressure in the 30s of unknown etiology. she was given ivfluids , dexamethasone 4 mg and one dose of gentamicin andvancomycin for presumed sepsis. a bedside echo that was doneshowed severe tricuspid regurgitation , diastolic dysfunction andejection fraction of 40% and pulmonary pressures in the 60s.there were wall motion abnormalities that were noted. thepatient was given additional doses of intravenous fluids and herblood pressures came back to 120s-130s/60s-70s. at this point ,the etiology of her low blood pressure was still unknown. on0/6 , patient was again unresponsive with low blood pressure andno pulse. code was called and the patient awoke after few chestcompressions was done and had a blood pressure of 130s/70s. shewas subsequently seen by dr. eugenio krucker , cardiologist at camp memorial hospital , who thought her overall picture andechocardiogram was consistent with cardiac amyloidosis. thepatient was thought to have autonomic insufficiency secondary toamyloid neuropathy and a fixed cardiac output with restrictiveheart. serum protein analysis subsequently revealed apredominance of igg light chains with elevation of both kappa andlambda light change , which are suggestive but not confirmatory oftype al amyloidosis. a fat pad biopsy was also done , resultswere pending at discharge. further blood samples were sent toperli medical center for furtheranalysis. the patient will obtain results via her primary carephysician , dr. emanuel chuh . of note , the patient had nofurther hypotensive episodes prior to discharge.2. hematology: the patient was noted to have a low plateletcount of 136 , 000 at admission. it was thought that this couldbe due to possible heparin-induced thrombocytopenia but the hepantibody was negative. on 0/5/05 , lower extremity ultrasounddone after first episode of being unresponsive was positive forleft popliteal vein thrombosis. the patient was started onheparin intravenous according to protocol. on 6/4/05 , thepatient had nosebleeds and hematuria and her ptt was noted to begreater than 150. heparin was stopped until the ptt was between60 and 80. the bleeding stopped. she was continued on heparinand her ptt was maintained between 60 and 80. she was laterswitched to lovenox and coumadin maintaining her inr between 2and 3. lovenox was discontinued and on discharge the patient wasjust on coumadin. her discharge inr was 2.4.3. renal: the patient has chronic renal insufficiency withbaseline creatinine of 2.5. a foley was placed at admission forpatient comfort. she consistently had low urine output duringher hospitalization , averaging about 300-400 cc of urine a dayeven after iv fluid administration. she had two days ofhematuria secondary to anticoagulation that resolved aftercopious irrigation of the foley. her creatinine at discharge was2.7. there were no acute renal issues.4. pulmonary: the patient required oxygen throughout her stayto keep her saturations above 95%. she had a few episodes ofshortness of breath , which spontaneously resolved. she was givena few doses of iv lasix and this helped a little with hershortness of breath , but her chest x-ray remained unchanged fromadmission.5. endocrine: the patient has a history of diabetes. she hadnormal fingersticks during her hospitalization. she was on atight glycemic control with a regular insulin sliding scale.6. neuro: the patient was on aspirin and plavix initially givenher history of cvas and cortical blindness , but on discharge , shewas on coumadin for anticoagulation. the patient also had alidocaine patch that was applied for 12 hours every day andoxycodone was used p.r.n. pain.7. fluids , electrolytes , and nutrition: the patient received ivfluid boluses during hypotensive episodes. electrolytes werefollowed and repeated accordingly. nutrition was consulted andshe was placed on a soft pureed diet with a 2-l fluidrestriction , no concentrated sweets. she was also given neprosupplements given her renal function.8. line: the patient initially had an ej line , then a femoralline for access as peripheral access was difficult to obtain.she then had a picc line placed on 7/23/05 for access.9. disposition: there was a family meeting on 7/23/05 duringwhich the patient's poor prognosis was discussed with ms. vernon b corippo , the patient's daughter. the family emphasized that hercode status was dnr/dni and they were comfortable with thedischarge back to ge er derd . they also emphasized that thepatient should be rehospitalized for any acute issues.10. code status: dnr/dni.discharge medications: aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily , and colace 100mg p.o. b.i.d. , pepcid 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , regular insulin slidingscale , lopressor 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. , oxycodone 5-10 mg p.o. q.4h.p.r.n. pain , senna tablets two tablets p.o. b.i.d. , multivitaminswith minerals one tab p.o. daily , trazodone 50 mg p.o. q.h.s.p.r.n. insomnia and anxiety , coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.p.m. , ms contin15 mg p.o. q.12h. p.r.n. pain , lipitor 80 mg p.o. daily , plavix75 mg p.o. daily , midodrine 5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , duoneb 3/0.5 mginhaled q.6h. p.r.n. wheezing , lidocaine 5% patch appliedtopically daily for twelve hours.discharge instructions: the patient was told to call her doctorfor increased shortness of breath , chest pain , fevers or anyother concerns. she was also told to follow up with her primarycare physician as needed.discharge condition: stable. the patient is to be transferredto nc where she would be under the care of herprimary care physician , dr. landon mcpeek .escription document: 4-9258887 csfocus transcriptionistsdictated by: kofahl , rodneyattending: kirvin , luisdictation id 7202548d: 4/7/05t: 4/7/05[report_end]