admission date :07/10/1991discharge date :07/18/1991procedures :thoracentesis was performed on 7-12-91 .reason for admission :the patient is an 85-year-old white male with a history of ischemic bowel status post recent admission for urosepsis and c. difficile colitis .he returns from the nursing home with fever , leukocytosis , and azotemia .present illness :briefly , the patient has a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , ethanol abuse , chronic pleural effusions , and chronic renal insufficiency .he presented to gaanvantsir on 04-17-92 with abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea .workup revealed ischemic bowel secondary to celiac and sma stenoses .the patient underwent an angioplasty of his sma from 90-20% residual .the patient was also found to have gram negative rod sepsis with blood cultures times two growing e. coli and b. fragilis .the patient was treated with ampicillin , gentamicin , and flagyl .the patient was readmitted on 5-21-91 with a falling hematocrit from 36 to 22 , mild congestive heart failure , and guaiac positive stool .the colonoscopy and upper gastrointestinal series were negative .the patient was given two units of packed red blood cells and h2 blockers .his hematocrit was 31 on discharge .his hematocrit was 31 on discharge .on 6-12-91 the patient was admitted to ingtermst.gay health center with fever , hypertension , and diarrhea .the bun and creatinine equalled 128/8.6 , co2 equaled 12 .the patient was treated with intravenous fluids , kefzol , gentamicin , vancomycin , and he was transferred to gaanvantsir .he was hospitalized from 6-12-91 to 7-9-91 with a prolonged course notable for :1) serratia urosepsis treated with ceftizoxime .2) azotemia presumed secondary to sepsis and dehydration , creatinine decreased to 2.1 with intravenous fluids and antibiotics .renal ultrasound was negative for abscess orhydronephrosis .3) loculated pleural effusions .thoracentesis revealed a ph of 7.18 , glucose 52 , white blood cell count 200 ; evaluated by thoracic surgery , no chest tube placed .4) c. difficile colitis with white blood cell count rising to 51,000 , treated with intravenous and p.o. flagyl .c. difficile was negative times three prior to discharge .the patient went to his nursing home on 7-9-91 but the next day he developed a temperature to 102.4 degrees , diarrhea , and orthostasis and he was transferred back to gaanvantsir .the patient was admitted to the medical intensive care unit with question of sepsis .white blood cell count was 40,000 with left shift .the bun was 35 , creatinine 4.3 .urinalysis had 5-10 white blood cells and 2+ bacteria .the patient underwent thoracentesis without evidence of empyema .he was treated with intravenous fluids and intravenous antibiotics with ceftizoxime , gentamicin , and flagyl .he was also started on p.o. vancomycin for question c. difficile colitis .he is now transferred to the medicine service for further care .hospital course :1. colitis .the patient has a history of ischemic bowel status post sma percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty with recent admission for gram negative rod urosepsis complicated by c. difficile colitis .the patient received a full course of flagyl and was c. difficile toxin negative times three prior to transfer .he now returns with fever , rising white count , diarrhea , and dehydration .initially treated with intravenous ceftizoxime , gentamicin , and flagyl for presumed sepsis , either with urine or bowel source .he was also started on p.o. vancomycin .blood cultures and urine cultures came back negative .stool for c. difficile returned positive .the diagnosis , therefore , was relapsed c. difficile colitis .intravenous antibiotics were discontinued and the patient was continued on p.o. vancomycin .he improved clinically with defervescence , decreased white blood cell count to 10,000 with resolution of left shift , and some decrease in abdominal distention on exam .an abdominal cat scan revealed thickened bowel wall and thumb printing , primarily involving the cecum and right colon greater than the left , consistent with c. difficile colitis .the diagnosis of recurrent bowel ischemia , however , was not ruled out and this will continue to be a concern in the future .the patient was initially n.p.o. and was then advanced to clear liquids which he tolerated .he will be advanced to soft solids prior to discharge .2. azotemia .the patient has chronic renal insufficiency with baseline creatinine 1.8-2 .creatinine had risen to 4.3 on admission presumed secondary to sepsis and dehydration .with intravenous hydration the bun and creatinine fell to 12/1.9 which is within normal limits for this patient .the abdominal cat scan showed no evidence of hydronephrosis orrenal abscess .3. mental status .the patient was alert and oriented throughout the admission ; however , by personality , he is somewhat cantankerous and demanding of the nurses .he was written for haldol 1 mg p.o b.i.d. p.r.n. to help with this problem .