admission date :2014-03-05discharge date :2014-04-04service :cardiothoracic surgeryhistory of the present illness :this is a 71 - year-old gentleman who was admitted to the st. anne 's hospital as a transfer from the kindred park view specialty hospital of springfield .prior to admission , he had a long and complicated hospital course at the outside hospital .his hospital course began on 2014-02-13 when he underwent a right carotid endarterectomy for 95% stenosis of the carotid artery .his postoperative course was complicated by nonspecific t wave changes consistent with myocardial infarction postoperatively as well as hematoma formation .the hematoma formation was rapidly expanding and he received an emergent surgical airway in the intensive care unit .this emergent cricothyroidotomy was converted then to a formal tracheostomy .during his subsequent hospital course , he had an additional chf exacerbation .he was medically managed and eventually his tracheostomy was decannulated .however , just prior to admission to mass. eye & ear infirmary he had another acute decompensation with chf exacerbation .this necessitated emergent intubation .with ekg changes consistent with myocardial infarction , he was transferred to the mass. eye & ear infirmary for further management .hospital course :mr. knueppel was admitted to the ccu at the mass. eye & ear infirmary .upon admission , he was treated for his pneumonia .he was medically managed for chf and underwent a cardiac catheterization on 2014-03-06 .his catheterization revealed 70% stenosis of the distal left main coronary artery , 90% stenosis of the lad , 80% stenosis of the circumflex , 90% stenosis of om2 and a proximally occluded right coronary artery .after reviewing cardiac catheterization data , a consultation was made with cardiothoracic surgery who deemed that he was a good candidate for coronary artery bypass grafting .over the ensuing days , mr. nina chf was managed by the ccu team and he received treatment for what was now determined to be a klebsiella pneumonia .he was treated with a full course of zosyn .on 2014-03-11 , mr. knueppel went to the operating room with dr. streeter .he underwent a coronary artery bypass graft of four vessels .he had a saphenous vein graft to his lad and diagonal in a sequential fashion , saphenous vein graft to his pda and a saphenous vein graft to his om .the procedure was performed by dr. streeter and assisted by dr . .....................the patient tolerated the procedure well without complication and was transferred to the cardiac surgery recovery unit without complication .please see the previously dictated operative note for more details .mr. knueppel had a long postoperative course .his postoperative course was complicated by hypertension which was managed medically .during his postoperative course , he did not suffer from any arrhythmias nor did he have any episode of hypotension .at the time of discharge , he was on a stable antihypertensive regimen appropriate for someone with a decreased ejection fraction .mr. knueppel had had a long protracted period of intubation prior to the operation .the status of mr. nina pulmonary system necessitated a prolonged postoperative intubation .after a very slow wean from ventilatory support , mr. knueppel was successfully extubated on postoperative day number nine .he continued to be very tenuous from a pulmonary point of view and required frequent chest pt .for this reason , mr. knueppel was kept in the intensive care unit where very close monitoring could be performed .in addition , he had chest pt performed at very regular intervals by the icu staff .his pulmonary status was so tenuous that we were unable to transfer him to the regular patient care floor during his hospitalization .mr. knueppel had an emergent cricothyroidotomy followed by a formal tracheostomy at the outside hospital .there is much scarring surrounding his larynx .such a situation frequently makes it very difficult to swallow without aspirating .as is expected , mr. knueppel failed a swallowing study early on in his boston regional medical centerr hospital course .the study was repeated and yet again mr. knueppel was unable to swallow without evidence of aspiration .after a prolonged period of being fed via nasogastric tube , mr. knueppel finally had a formal percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube placed in the intensive care unit .this was performed on 2014-04-01 , postoperative day number 21 .this procedure was performed by dr. kevin taussig and assisted by dr. carla solan .the procedure was performed under endoscopic guidance in the intensive care unit without complication .please see the previously dictated operative note for more details .mr. knueppel robertson a distal radius fracture prior to arriving to the hospital .this injury had been reduced and casted at the outside institution .postoperatively , there was much edema associated in the postoperative course from coronary artery bypass grafting .his cast was removed by the orthopedic service in anticipation of this edema and to avoid compartment syndrome .the cast was replaced by a plaster splint .mr. knueppel should follow-up with his orthopedic surgeon in the worcester state hospital for reassessment of his injury and possible removal of the splint .by postoperative day number 23 , mr. nina pulmonary status was deemed sufficiently stable .his hypertension was well controlled and he was tolerating tube feeds .at this point , he was ready to be discharged to rehabilitation .