082738817cmc191536296/3/1993 12:00:00 amdischarge summarysigneddisadmission date :06/03/1993report status :signeddischarge date :06/06/1993discharge diagnosis :uterine prolapse .history of present illness :this is a 70 year old gravida iv , para 4 who presented for a vaginal hysterectomy secondary to uterine prolapse and also presented for evaluation of a suspicious lesion seen on a mammogram .patient 's problem started four years ago when she first experienced a pushing forward of her uterus .the patient described this sensation as uncomfortable and becoming more prominent over the following three years with increasing pressure and pain .two months ago , the patient slipped and fell with valsalva that precipitated an exacerbation of her prolapse .she subsequently could not urinate and was in pain secondary to her problem .at this time , she decided that she needed the prolapse fixed and actually wrote to the norri hospital to try and find a gynecologist .her letter was referred to dr. earllamarg para who saw her in the office and recommended vaginal hysterectomy .patient has never had a pessary and refused one and denies nausea , fever , chills , dysuria , or stress incontinence on her current admission .past medical history :significant for a lower left saphenous vein thrombosis diagnosed with lower extremity non-invasives and on may 2 , 1993 with no evidence of deep venous thrombosis and clearance by dr. ribreefcheampner for further intervention .she also has a heart murmur since childhood .past surgical history :negative .past obstetrical history :significant for vaginal deliveries times four .past gynecological history :last menstrual period was at age fifty , the patient is not on hormonal replacement and she has a four history of uterine prolapse .current medications :aspirin one per day which the patient quit taking two weeks prior to admission .allergies :none .social history :patient lives on sauxdo lo with her husband and denies alcohol and denies drug abuse .physical examination :general :this was a well-developed , well-nourished female in no acute distress .patient had a blood pressure of 128/72 , a pulse of 84 that was regular , and she was afebrile at 98.4 .skin :examination showed right axillary and right posterior axillary skin tags and crusted lesions .heent :pupils were equal , round , and reactive to light , extraocular muscles were intact , and no lymphadenopathy .cardiac :examination showed regular rate and rhythm with no s3 or s4 heard and a grade ii/vi holosystolic murmur loudest at the left sternal border .lungs :examination was clear to auscultation .breasts :examination showed a right upper mid small breast mass which was detected actually by dr. para .abdomen :soft and non-tender .pelvic :deferred until the operating room .extremities :she had left lower leg varicose veins , no venous cords , and bilateral 2+ pedal pulses .laboratory examination :the patient had a bun and creatinine of 12 and 1.2 , a white count of 6.7 , a hematocrit of 39.4 , negative urinalysis , and a potassium of 4.6 .her ca-125 was 20 and she had a chest x-ray that showed no infiltrates and a mammogram that showed a left upper quadrant large calcified fibroadenoma and right upper mid area of calcification .she had an ekg that showed a question of an old inferior myocardial infarction .hospital course :cardiology was consulted to evaluate this and felt that the changes seen on the ekg were not significant .the patient was also seen by dr. nusc from general surgery for evaluation of micro calcifications in the right breast .the patient refused a biopsy for this admission and desires follow-up mammograms .she is to be followed up by general surgery .the patient underwent a total vaginal hysterectomy on june 4 , 1993 which she tolerated without complications .her post-operative course has been uncomplicated .she remained afebrile throughout her admission tolerating a regular diet by post-operative day two and was discharged on june 6 , 1993 with percocet for pain .the foley was discontinued and the patient was urinating on her own .disposition :discharge medications :percocet one to two tablets p.o. q.4-6h. p.r.n. , iron sulfate 325 mg p.o. b.i.d. , colace 100 mg b.i.d. , and one aspirin q.d.she is to follow-up with dr. para for follow-up .dictated by :rimarvnaa d. kushdreps , m.d. av94attending :earllamarg s. para , m.d. ft99 oh475/4059batch :2446index no. lxaib23c4 ld :06/07/93t :06/11/93