record #297173985693907 | dbh | 26518616 | | 2660804 | 5/19/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 6/12/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/6/2005attending: hagaman , juan mdadmission diagnoses:1. pregnancy at 34 weeks with di/di twins , iufd of one twin.2. diabetes.3. hypothyroidism.4. high blood pressure , chronic hypertension.history of present illness: ms. kerry winninger is a 32-year-oldg1 , p0 who presented to obstetrical triage at 34 weeks' gestationwith mono/di twins with complaints of decreased fetal movement aswell as cough in the setting of nausea and vomiting. in triage ,the fetal heart tracing on twin #2 was unable to be obtained , soan ultrasound was quickly brought and showed that twin #1 had fh100 to 108 with no evidence of fh in twin #2. given evidence ofan iufd and possible fetal distress in twin #2 , she was broughtfor a stat cesarean section which was ultimately complicated bymultiple factors.past medical history:1. chronic hypertension.2. hypothyroidism.3. hypercholesterolemia.4. obesity.5. diabetes type ii.past surgical history: an appendectomy.medications upon admission:1. levoxyl 88 mcg p.o. daily.2. nph as well as insulin managed via sliding scale as well asnph given at night and in the morning.3. albuterol p.r.n.allergies: latex leading to a rash. pineapple leading to gidistress.social history: denied any alcohol , tobacco , or drugs.family history: diabetes in father and grandmother.hospital course: ms. brain govea was immediately brought tothe operating room and underwent an uncomplicated stat cesareansection within 15 minutes of her arrival to obstetrical triage.for complete details of the surgery that she underwent , pleasesee the dictation from that day. the preoperative diagnoses werebradycardia , twin #1 , in triage; absent fetal cardiac activity in#2; and 34 weeks gestational age with mo/di twins. postoperativediagnoses were listed as chorioamnionitis , diabetes , and demiseof twin #2. the findings were consistent with a live born maleinfant apgars 5 and 8; a stillborn male infant , apgars 0 and 0;and intact placenta and a foul-smelling amniotic fluid with lightmeconium in twin #1. there were no complications.her postpartum course was highly complicated by several issuesthat will be dealt with by system. in short , she suffered a vfibarrest in the setting of the dic , potential sepsis , potentialhellp syndrome , and was admitted to the medical intensive careunit and intubated. ultimately , she was discharged from themedical intensive care unit and was monitored on the labor floorand then was transferred to postpartum where she continued torecover and regain function until postoperative day #12 when shewas discharged home with vna in stable condition. her issueswill be dealt with by system.1. cardiology. within 3 hours following her for stat cesareansection , she presented with acute onset of shortness of breath ,chest discomfort in the setting of a postpartum hemorrhage.telemetry was applied and had evidence of widening qrs complexes ,and ultimately , she went into vfib arrest with pulselesselectrical activity. she underwent aggressive resuscitation inthe form of 2 shocks with epinephrine following the code blue.she was brought back to the operating room where chem-7 revealedpotassium of 7 which may have been the etiology of this vfibarrest. a pulse was obtained following the 2 shocks andepinephrine , and she was intubated to clear her airway. she wasthen transferred to the medical intensive care unit where cardiacenzymes were followed for 4 total sets and were found to begrossly positive. the impression of her positive cardiac enzymesthat did trend downwords was that it was secondary to theaggressive chest compressions and were felt not likely to lead tosignificant myocardial injury. an echocardiogram that wasobtained on postoperative day #2 while she was admitted to themedical intensive care unit revealed no evidence of focal wallmotion abnormalities and showed that the overall left ventricularfunction was normal with an ef of 55%. of note , throughout hermicu admission , she was tachycardic to 120s to 140s , and thiswas ascribed to her marked amounts of postpartum hemorrhage inthe setting of possible chorioamnionitis with sepsis. thistachycardia resolved by postoperative day #6 , and bypostoperative day #12 , she was no longer tachycardia with a heartrate in the 80's.her blood pressure while in the initial postpartum period wasmaintained in the normal range , began to become elevated bypostoperative day #8 , and she was started on postoperative day#10 on her labetalol 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. this controlled herhypertension throughout the remainder of her hospital course , andshe was discharged home on labetalol.2. hematology. following her stat cesarean section , sheunderwent a postpartum hemorrhage with an estimated hemorrhage of5-6 l of blood from her vagina. this dissection itself had only700 cc blood loss. at this time , her fibrinogen was appreciatedto be 78 and her coags were markedly elevated. in the setting ofdic , she underwent an aggressive product resuscitation andultimately she received 20 units of packed red blood cells , 7units of fresh frozen plasma , 3 pools of platelets , 1200 mcg ofactivated factor 7a , 2 units of cryoprecipitate , 4 units of 5%albumin , and 1 bag of hespan within a timeframe of 3 to 6 hours.with this aggressive resuscitation , her hematocrit dropped to aslow as 26.4 , but we within 2 hours , had increased to 61.3.acutely following this episode after her aggressiveresuscitation , her fibrinogen increased from its low of 87 to337. her dic continued to be low-grade , even after beingdischarged from the medical intensive care unit. for thisreason , she was monitored on the labor floor for an additionalday postoperative day #4 , and her coagulation studies ranged froman inr of 1.2 to 1.4. when she was admitted to postpartum , herinr was 1.1 , and the day before discharge from the hospital , hercoagulation studies were found to be normal with an inr of 1.1and fibrinogen of 377.her platelets became an area of concern when she presented with aplatelet level that was found to be fluctuating between 90 and185. in the initial presentation after her postpartumhemorrhage. her platelets while in the medical intensive careunit went to as low as 57 , and this was felt to be possibly acomponent of her hellp syndrome versus dilution from her bloodproduct resuscitation also part of her dic consumptivecoagulopathy. although her dic consumptive coagulopathy hadevidence that it had resolved , her platelets remained low andreached another low postoperative #7 when they became 69. ahematology consult was obtained to evaluate the possible causesof her low platelets , and she underwent an extensive evaluationincluding a negative anticardiolipin and a negative lupusanticoagulant. the impression was one of low platelets secondaryto shock liver in addition to dic in addition to dilution withmarked amounts of blood products , especially in the setting ofthe hematocrit ranging from the 49 to 50 range at that time. herplatelets continued to improve throughout the hospital course andher platelets upon discharge were 144 and had trended up from thelow of 69.her hematocrit initially was found to be very high , uponpresentation at 51. this was consistent with hemoconcentrationwith a trough to as low as 26 while in the medical intensive careunit. following her resuscitation , it went to as high as 61. onpostoperative day #7 , however , it dropped from 46 to 40 and thendropped again to 37.5 upon repeat check. this was of concern but2 subsequent hematocrits were stable in the 39 range. her finalhematocrit on the day of discharge was 39.5. this droppinghematocrit was discovered in the setting of a rectus musclehematoma that will be dealt with elsewhere in the dictation buther hematocrit was stable upon discharge.3. gi. upon presentation , ms. neeb had evidence of increasinglfts. while in the medical intensive care unit , she was found tohave an ast of 177 , alt of 124 , and total bilirubin of 6.2.these elevated liver enzymes in the setting of her low plateletswas suspicious for possible hellp syndrome. these lfts continuedto improve with the ast and alt dropping down to the normallimits. upon discharge , she was appreciated to have an alt of 37and ast of 48. her bilirubin , however , continued to increasefrom 6.2 to as high as 11.2. in the setting of her increasingbilirubin while the other lfts continued to improve , a gi consulwas obtained , and she underwent a right upper quadrant ultrasoundtwo times , once while on the labor floor and once while on thepostpartum floor. both of these revealed a normal liver , normalbiliary tree , as well as normal-sized spleen. in the setting ofa normal nonobstructive picture , the gi consult had theimpression that the increased bilirubin was secondary to hershock liver as well as the multiple blood transfusions andpossible sepsis. they were confident that this would continuedto improve but would likely take 2 to 3 weeks. upon discharge ,her total bilirubin had begun to decrease to 8.2. she didmanifest evidence of jaundice that was improving through thehospital course.on postoperative day #9 , ms. culp developed a marked increase inher amylase and lipase. this was checked in the setting ofincreasing right upper quadrant pain that ultimately resolved.her lipase was elevated to as high as 438 to 474. gi was againreconsulted and had the impression that she did not suffer frompancreatitis given that she had no nausea or vomiting , wastolerating a regular diet , and had resolved abdominal pain. theyfelt that this was likely secondary to post-surgical change andwas not an aggressive process that may need further treatment.an abdominal pelvic ct also demonstrated a normal pancreaswithout any evidence of stranding or pseudocyst formation.the overall impression of the obstetrics team was that herconstellation of acute-onset dic associated withhyperbilirubinemia and low platelets was all consistent with apotential diagnosis of acute fatty liver of pregnancy. thisdiagnosis is one that can be best made by a liver biopsy anddiscussions with the gi service revealed that they did not feelstrongly that she needed a liver biopsy. the gi service wasskeptical with regard to the diagnosis of acute fatty liver ofpregnancy despite the clinical hallmarks being manifest in thispatient. they felt as if her symptoms could be adequatelyexplained by the degree of shock liver and postpartum hemorrhagethat she experienced. it was unclear as to whether or not shehad acute fatty liver of pregnancy , but given the risk ofrecurrence , she will be counseled as an outpatient with regard tofuture pregnancies and management of these pregnancies , given herhistory of potential acute fatty liver of pregnancy.4. incision. on postoperative day #10 , she developed a darkblood ooze from a 2-mm portion on the right aspect of herpfannenstiel incision. this was concerning for a possiblesubcutaneous hematoma. so an abdominopelvic ct was obtained onpostoperative day #10 that showed evidence of an 8 x 5 cm rightrectus hematoma that may have had an area of tracking through thefascia into the subcutaneous space. it was felt that this couldundergo dressing daily , and would ultimately seal up and stopbleeding. she was discharged home with vna daily dressingchanges and plan to reassess the incision at her followuppostpartum appointment in 4 days from the date of discharge. ofnote , this right rectus hematoma was diagnosed in the setting ofa drop in her hematocrit from 46 to 40. her hematocrit remainedstable for 2 additional days at 39.5.5. infectious disease. on postoperative day #0 , following herstat cesarean section. she had a t-max of 101.9 in the medicalintensive care unit , and ampicillin , gentamicin , and clindamycinas well as levoflox ofloxacin were started on iv and wascontinued for 6 days until ultimately her blood cultures grew outno organism. the urine cultures were negative and her placentaculture also demonstrated only staphylococcus coagulase negativewith a gram's stain showing no organisms. she remained afebrilefor the remainder of her hospital course and was not dischargedon antibiotics.6. endocrine. initially following her medical intensive careunit admission , her blood sugar remained low throughout the daydespite her eating habits. her blood sugars would get as slow asthe 40s and as high as the 80s. this was perplexing as she wasknown to be type 2 diabetic who initially been managed onmetformin prepregnancy. an endocrine consult was obtained. theconcern was for possible addisonian crisis and cord stimulationtest was normal as well as a.m. and p.m. cortisol levels werechecked. these remained within normal limits , and the concernfor possible sheehan syndrome secondary to her massive postpartumhemorrhage was largely excluded. a tsh as well as an acth levelwhere both drawn , and her tsh was 1.05 in the normal range andthe acth test was 51 , within the normal range. of note , herblood sugars did trend up near the end of her hospital course.on postoperative day #10 , she was found to have fasting sugars inthe 120s. she was restarted on nph 10 units daily. q.p.m. andq.a.m. as well as her humalog sliding scale a.c. she wasdischarged home with prescriptions for nph as well as her humalogand will follow her sugars. these will be followed up by herendocrinologist dr. kuk within 4 days of this discharge.7. renal. while in the medical intensive care unit , shesuffered acute renal failure with a creatinine that went as highas 2.1. this improved to 1.0 upon discharge. of note , she had adecreased sodium appreciated on postoperative day #7. urinaryelectrolytes were drawn and fractional excretion of sodium wasappreciated to be 0.32 consistent with prerenal , and the urineosmolality was 400 consistent with concentrated urine that may ormay not have been consistent with syndrome of inappropriate adh.she underwent fluid restriction for 3 days and her sodiumimproved from 129 to 134 upon discharge.8. pulmonary. immediately following her vfib arrest , she wascomplaining of severe rather shortness of breath and wasintubated on the first attempt. at this time , intubated andsedated , she was in the micu and was extubated on postoperativeday #2. she was transitioned to nasal cannula after being onfio2 of 80% and ultimately was discharged home sating 99 to 100%on room air with a good exercise tolerance.9. infant. their baby boy towery was doing very well upondischarge. he was followed by the pediatric service at chardson medical center and was discharged home with them.10. neuro. initially , her mental status in the medicalintensive care unit would wax and wane. she would beintermittently disoriented. a head ct was obtained postoperativeday #4 , and this was shown to have no focal abnormalitiesalthough there was some indication that there might have beensome stranding between the white and gray matter consistent withpossible edema. this report was not mentioned in the finalreport of the head ct. upon discharge , her mental status was atbaseline with perfect memory of the event leading up to the statcesarean section although she had some difficulty rememberingspecifics with regards to her medical intensive care unitadmission , and the ensuing days. she was alert and oriented toperson , place , and time.11. physical therapy. she underwent a physical therapy consultwith the impression of improving physical status and exercise.she was given exercise strategies that she will continue at home.she was offered home physical therapy but declined as shethought the visiting vna would be adequate and that she was ableto be out of bed with her usual exercise tolerance.disposition: on postoperative day #11 , status post her statcesarean sections for iufd with twins and postpartum hemorrhagedic , she was discharged home with a plan to follow up in the obclinic in 4 days with dr. fred riter and dr. shad brondykeshe will also be seen by dr. durnin of endocrinology. she willhave daily vna dressing changes and was instructed to call if shehad any fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , increased bleeding fromthe incision or if she had any questions.discharge medications:1. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.2. levoxyl 75 mcg p.o. daily.3. oxycodone 5 to 10 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain.4. senna tablets 2 tabs p.o. b.i.d.5. simethicone 80 mg p.o. q.i.d.6. labetalol 200 mg p.o. b.i.d.7. nph 10 units q.a.m. and q.p.m.8. humalog sliding scale ac 5-10 units.discharge diagnoses:1. pregnancy , status post stat cesarean section for iufd ,nonreassuring fetal heart tracing.2. vfib arrest.3. dic.4. severe pet/hellp.5. thrombocytopenia.6. elevated liver enzymes.7. hypothyroidism.8. a2 gestational diabetes.ultimately she was discharged home with low platelets.throughout her hospital course , she was appreciated to haveevidence of low platelets on her first cbc upon presentation toardma medical center as well as chest compressions , and apulse was once again obtained. in the triage , she was found tohave evidence of a demised twin as well as evidence of a heartrate of the second twin in the 90's.escription document: 5-2200064 hffocus transcriptionistsdictated by: jodha , donnieattending: brett dominic cobbins , m.d. xn02dictation id 9243726d: 0/19/05t: 0/19/05[report_end]