record #269991515955975 | oh | 36437373 | | 166689 | 0/25/1995 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 0/11/1995 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/18/1995principal diagnosis: myocardial infarction.list of significant problems: diabetes.history of present illness: the patient is a 54 year old , whitemale with cardiac risk factors ofdiabetes , borderline hypertension , male gender , and a positivefamily history , who has no prior cardiac history , but now presentsto leyson memorial hospital complaining of substernal chestpain. approximately six weeks ago , the patient lifted a 100-poundbag and the next a.m. , noted substernal chest pressure withoutassociated symptoms. this pressure lasted approximately three tofive minutes and resolved spontaneously. since then , the patienthas had two similar episodes of substernal chest pressure that haveoccurred while he was exerting himself , once while running during abasketball game and once again while running on the beach inwesttpo racecon nari neither episode had associated symptoms ( i.e. , radiation ,nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis , palpitations ) , and both episodeslasted less than five minutes and resolved with rest. on the nightprior to admission , the patient was working regripping his golfclubs and noted a pulling sensation into his chest , which againresolved with rest. on the morning of admission , the patient awokeat 4:00 a.m. , noting a 6-7/10 substernal chest pressure associatedwith diaphoresis. the pain persisted for five hours , at which timethe patient presented to mlmc .  at kgh , the patient was found tohave a blood pressure of 152/88 and a heart rate of 76. hisphysical examination was benign. however , the patient'selectrocardiogram showed new st depressions in v2-v5 , t waveinversions in avl , and flat t's in 1 and v6. the patient wastreated with two sublingual nitroglycerins and sent to the mendwood hospital .  on route to icoson hospital , the patient receivedtwo sublingual nitroglycerin sprays. on arrival , the patient'spain had dwindled to 1/10 , without associated symptoms. thepatient's blood pressure was 126/80 , with a heart rate of 80. thepatient was treated with an aspirin , a sublingual nitroglycerin ,nitro paste , lopressor 5 mg x 1 intravenously , and intravenousheparin. upon transfer to the ccu , the patient was pain free. arepeat electrocardiogram demonstrated resolution of st depressionsand flat t waves , but persistence of the t wave inversion in avl.the patient was admitted for further treatment and to rule outmyocardial infarction. the patient gives no history of edema ,paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , or orthopnea. the patient deniesfevers , upper respiratory infection symptoms , cough , abdominalpain , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , dysuria , or weight loss.past medical history: the patient's past medical history issignificant for diabetes. the patient haskidney stones , is status post procedure three to four years ago ,and a history of sinusitis.allergies: no known drug allergies.medications on admission: the patient's medications at the time ofadmission included only glyburide 2.5 mgp.o. q.d.social history: the patient is unmarried. he was the part ownerof a bar. he does not smoke , and he does notdrink.family history: the patient's mother had a myocardial infarctionin her 60's.physical examination: the patient is a pleasant , tan male in noacute distress. blood pressure , 126/80.heart rate , 80. respiratory rate , 20. temperature , 98. oxygensaturation , 100% on two liters. head , eyes , ears , nose , and throatexamination was anicteric , with oropharynx benign. neck wassupple , with no lymphadenopathy. carotids were 2+ , with no bruits.lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. back examinationdemonstrated no costovertebral angle tenderness and no spinaltenderness. coronary examination revealed a regular rate andrhythm , distant s1 and s2 , and no murmurs , rubs or gallops.abdominal examination was benign. rectal examination showed guaiacnegative stool. extremities showed no cyanosis , clubbing , oredema , with pulses 2+ throughout , and no femoral bruits.neurologic examination revealed the patient to be alert andoriented x 3.laboratory data: laboratory studies on admission revealed thepatient's electrolytes to be within normallimits , except for a glucose of 293. the first ck returned 970 ,with an mb fraction of 65.1. magnesium was 1.6. cbc was withinnormal limits , with a hematocrit of 44.1. coag's were also normalat 12.7 and 27.4. chest x-ray showed no enlarged heart and noinfiltrate. electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm , with arate of 60 , and no st-t changes on the 19 of may , 1995.however , electrocardiogram at the bertgrand hospital , pain free , showed normalsinus rhythm , with a heart rate of 82 , t wave inversions , avl , andflat t's in lead 1.hospital course: the patient was admitted with a diagnosis ofacute myocardial infarction. electrocardiogramchanges were consistent with lateral or anterolateral ischemia.his peak ck's returned at 1 , 330 , with 54.5% mb fractions. thepatient was maintained on heparin and intravenous nitroglycerin for72 hours after admission and was started on lopressor andenteric-coated aspirin at admission. the patient remained chestpain free for the five days post myocardial infarction andunderwent a submax ett on the 1 of january , 1995. in addition , anelectrocardiogram was performed , which showed a left ventricle with73% ejection fraction , upper limits of normal size , and a questionof inferior wall hypokinesis. on the 14 of may , the patient underwent asubmax ett , which was stopped secondary to chest tightness , withdiagnostic electrocardiogram changes , maximal heart rate of 96 ,blood pressure of 145/82 , electrocardiogram with 2 mm stdepressions , persisting into recovery. because of a positive ett ,the patient subsequently underwent cardiac catheterization , whichshowed a proximal left circ lesion 70% stenosed , which waspercutaneous transhepatic coronary angioplastied to 20% residual ,as well as a mid-left circ lesion 70% stenosed , which waspercutaneous transhepatic coronary angioplastied to a 30% residual.the left anterior descending was found to be diffusely diseased ,without focal stenoses , and the proximal right coronary arteryshowed a 60% shelf-like lesion. the patient did not experiencechest pain or shortness of breath during the procedure. postcardiac catheterization/percutaneous transhepatic coronaryangioplasty , the patient was maintained on his glipizide andatenolol , 50 mg p.o. q.d. , and enteric-coated aspirin , as well asheparin overnight. two days after the cardiac catheterization , thepatient underwent a second submax ett. this he performed withoutchest discomfort or electrocardiogram changes.disposition: the patient was discharged to home on the 30 of november . condition on discharge: the patient's condition at the time ofdischarge was stable.discharge plan: the patient will receive diabetic teaching asan outpatient with ch and will follow up withdr. kalert .discharge medications: atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.d. , sublingualnitroglycerins p.r.n. chest pain , andglucotrol 5 mg p.o. q.d.dictated by: harland delaughter , m.d.attending: greg b. adam , m.d. ia7  fa178/8091batch: 4678 index no. cimahr8wja d: 11/10/95t: 2/12/95[report_end]