admission date :08/31/1992discharge date :09/07/1992history of present illness :the patient is a 37-year-old white male with aids complicated by recurrent pseudomonas infections presently on ceftazidime and aztrenam complicated by mai who comes in with fever , chills and blood cultures positive for candida species .the patient has multiple aids illnesses including mai who has multiple admissions for pseudomonas pneumonia .his most recent admission was on 08/23/92 to 08/25/92 with fever and chills .he was again treated with iv ceftazidime for presumed pseudomonal pneumonia and discharged home on iv antibiotics which he is presently on .the patient did well at home with decreasing fever and good appetite until the night prior to admission when he developed fever and chills .concurrent blood cultures grew out candida species at hchp .the patient &apos;s baseline o2 saturation is 92% on three liters .he has a left arm graft placed for access three weeks ago which is used for blood drawing and iv medications .he notes no tenderness , erythema , warmth or exudate from the passport site .medications at the time of admission include dapsone 50 mg p.o. on monday , wednesday and friday , ceftazidime 1 gram iv q. 8 hours , cipro 750 mg p.o. b.i.d. , acyclovir 400 mg p.o. q. day , megastrol 80 mg p.o. t.i.d. and g-csf 150 micrograms subcu b.i.d.hospital course :by problems :1. infectious disease .the patient was started on amphotericine at .6 mg / kg for a total of 250 mg for positive blood cultures for candida .the passport in his left arm was pulled and will be replaced if needed after the amphotericine is completed .the patient will continue on his antibiotics for pseudomonas pneumonia to complete the fourteen day course which was completed on 09/06/92 .the patient was continued on his admission medications .2. hematology .the patient was continued on his g-csf with an increase in his white count to 8 from 1.8 .the patient required multiple blood transfusions for a low hematocrit .