record #762970342590615 | ktgmc | 47454253 | | 685639 | 7/9/2001 12:00:00 am | cerbral vascular accident | signed | dis | admission date: 2/15/2001 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/11/2001chief complaint: left lower extremity numbness.history of present illness: milo barta is a 78-year-oldafrican american female with asignificant cardiac history , including hypertension , congestiveheart failure , history of afib -- patient is on coumadin , cad ,status post mi , mitral valve replacement in 1995 or so , who was inher usual state of health until the morning of admission , when shesays she awoke in a sweat , had a headache , and noticed she couldnot stand. she felt that her left lower extremity was "asleep" andweak. she called 911 , came to pch . the patient also noted thather speech seemed slurred at the time that she was unable to getup. she denied any weakness or numbness in her other extremitiesor face. she denied any chest pain , shortness of breath , or visualchanges. she says she did note transient heart palpitations. shedenied fever , chills , nausea , and vomiting. in the er the patientwas noted to have 2/5 left lower extremity power. she had noapparent sensory deficits at that time.past medical history: as above , and including noninsulin dependentdiabetes mellitus , a status post left hipreplacement , history of dvt , status post mitral valve replacementfor mitral stenosis approximately eight years ago ( patient says shehas a history of rheumatic fever ) , and bilateral cataracts.medications on admission: norvasc 10 mg q. day , amiodarone 200 mgq. day , isordil 20 mg t.i.d. , lasix 40mg q. day , coumadin 5 mg monday , wednesday , and friday and 2.5 mgtuesday , thursday , saturday , and sunday , lomotil 1-2 mg q.i.d.p.r.n. , glyburide 5 mg b.i.d. , and prinivil 20 mg q. day.social history: patient denied any history of tobacco , ethanol , orillicit drug use. she lives alone and says she isa very private person. she does all of her own activities of dailyliving and walks with a cane.family history: the patient's mother died of an mi and her fatherapparently died of a pe. she has a son that diedof an mi as well.allergies: the patient has an allergy to penicillin , sulfa drugs ,and aspirin.review of systems: as per hpi.physical examination: on being admitted to the hospital , thepatient was afebrile at 97.4 degreesfahrenheit , with a pulse of 68 , blood pressure of 190/90 , andsatting 98% on room air. patient's exam showed that she had nocarotid bruits or jvd. her heart exam was notable for a regularrate and rhythm , as well as prosthetic s1. her lungs were clear toauscultation bilaterally and abdominal exam was benign.extremities showed cool fingers on the right , with a 1+ pulse , andwarm well perfused fingers on the left , with a 2+ radial pulse.apparently , these extremity changes are long-standing and not new.she had 2+ pulses in her posterior tibial pulses and trace pulsesin her dorsalis pedes pulses bilaterally. on neuro exam thepatient was alert and oriented x three. she exhibited good naming ,comprehension , reading , and fluency. cranial nerves ii-xii wereintact bilaterally. on motor exam the patient had 5/5 powereverywhere except for the left lower extremity , with knee flexors ,knee extensors , ankle flexors , and ankle extensors being 3+/5 andhip flexors and hip extensors being 4-/5. her tone was slightlyincreased in her left lower extremity. on sensory exam she hadslightly reduced sensation to pinprick , light touch , andtemperature in both extremities to the hip. deep tendon reflexeswere symmetric and 2+ throughout , with downgoing toes bilaterally.pertinent labs on admission showed a slightly increased creatinineat 1.7 and a bun of 31. the patient had a tsh of 1.09 and a totalcholesterol of 197 , with an ldl of 131. her sed. rate was 14 andher hematocrit was 40.2. inr was noted to be 1.7. cks were flatand the patient was ruled out for an mi.impression:1. neurologic: given the patient's significant cardiac historyand subtherapeutic inr , it was considered that her left lowerextremity weakness that was transient was likely a transientischemic attack. the patient's motor deficits quickly improvedover her hospital stay and she felt she was back to baseline on theday of discharge. head ct and head mri and mra were negative forany acute changes , including hemorrhage and infarction. on mra thepatient was noted to have some proximal stenosis of her rightintracranial carotid and had also some atherosclerotic changes ofher pcas bilaterally. the patient also had atte with a bubblestudy that was negative for pfo. the patient was continued on hercoumadin at 5 mg q.h.s. until her inr was therapeutic. during thisinterval she was started on heparin and was therapeutic on that.the patient is to follow up in the coumadin clinic as well asneurology clinic in one month. she is to have her coumadin drawnat three days after discharge to ensure that her inr is above 2.her coumadin dosing regimen was slightly changed , with her takingfour doses of 5 mg a week and three doses of 2.5 mg a week. thepatient was seen by physical therapy , who cleared her to go homeand felt that she was okay to walk stairs with her walker.2. cardiovascular: the patient has an extensive cardiac historyas detailed above. her systolic blood pressure was calculatedbetween 120 and 160 during the first day of her hospital stay , asit was unclear whether she had a serious carotid stenosis or not.her blood pressure meds were gradually added back. the patient hadseveral episodes of atypical chest pain , for which she was ruledout with telemetry and enzymes , which were flat.3. endocrine: the patient was placed on a diabetic diet and wascontinued on her glyburide. a hemoglobin a1c is pending at thetime of this dictation. she was covered with sliding scale insulinduring her hospital stay.medications on discharge: amiodarone 200 mg q. day , norvasc 10 mgq. day , isordil 20 mg t.i.d. , lasix 40mg q. day , coumadin 5 mg monday , wednesday , friday , and sunday , and2.5 mg tuesday , thursday , and saturday , glyburide 5 mg b.i.d. ,lasix 40 mg q. day , and prinivil 20 mg q. day.dictated by: colton elmer , m.d. tx610attending: emerson dermody , m.d. fv9re475/674278batch: 46157 index no. dtpzy943tz d: 9/15/01t: 8/5/01[report_end]