record date: 2145-08-13august 12, 2145   dr. mabel duvall medicine department bellflower doctors hospital   re:  tuttle, sandy mr#:  2793372 dob:  january 16, 2082   dear dr. duvall:   thank you for referring mr. sandy tuttle to our neurology department.  i understand that he is referred here for evaluation of polyneuropathy.   mr. tuttle is a 63-year-old right-handed diabetic man who has developed numbness of his lower extremities since 2125.  the numbness started in his toes and gradually spread proximally up to the level of the knees.  in 2135, the numbness started to affect his hands.  in 2139, the patient noted atrophy of the first dorsal interosseous muscles of both hands, left worse than right.   the patient denies any pain in his legs or feet.  he has a five year history of localized low back pain and neck pain radiating to his left upper extremity all the way down to his hands.  in 2125, the patient fell down a ladder from a height of about 30 feet.  according to the patient, he herniated a cervical disk, but surgery was not indicated.  he remembers having pain in his left elbow and neck after the fall.   the patient developed impotence and constipation in 2130.  in 2139, he started to have symptoms of orthostatic hypotension which he described as feeling light-headed, darkening of vision upon standing.  the patient also noted gait imbalance in 2139 prior to his retirement in 2141.   past medical history:  insulin dependent diabetes since 2123, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, constipation, impotence, macular degeneration of the eyes, retinopathy, s/p laser treatments, history of neck pain and low back pain as mentioned above, history of gastroesophageal reflux disease, skin problems using a number of steroid creams, penile implant in 2130.   current medications:  atenolol, diltiazem, zestril, mevacor, steroid creams, colace, metoclopramide, naprosyn, insulin.   allergies:  no known drug allergies.   social history:  the patient is married he has two daughters, 30 and 40 years of age.  he used to work as a legal secretary until he retired in december of 2141.  the patient quit smoking in 2107.  he denies any history of alcohol or drug abuse.   family history:  father died of unclear cause at the age of 45.  his father was diabetic and had heart problems.  mother died in her 30's.  the patient does not know the cause of death.  the patient had one brother who died in his 50's from diabetic complications.  he had two sister who died of diabetic complications.  of his two living sisters, one of them is also a diabetic.  the patient's daughters are not diabetic.  there is no known family history of neuromuscular disorders.   physical examination:  range of motion of the neck is limited.  head turning 45 degrees to either side.  limited neck extension.  negative straight-leg raising.  negative spine tenderness.  regular cardiac rhythm, no heart murmur.  negative carotid bruits.  in the supine position, blood pressure 105/50, heart rate 60 and regular.  upon standing, blood pressure dropped to 60/40, heart rate remained 60.  the patient was asymptomatic.   neurological examination:  mental status:  alert, coherent and appropriate.  the patient knows the name of his physician, dr. duvall, dr. villagomez, and dr. goldberg at pioneer home.   cranial nerves:  visual fields full.  visual acuity with reading glasses 20/30 on the right, 20/20 -1 on the left.  extraocular movements full.  no nystagmus.  pupils sluggishly reactive to light.  optic discs flat bilaterally.  no facial asymmetry.  the tongue and soft palate move symmetrically.   motor examination:  atrophy of the first dorsal interosseous and adm, worse on the left hand.  no atrophy of the abductor pollicis brevis.  negative arm drift.  motor strength testing 5/5 in all muscles of both upper extremities except for 4/5 weakness of the first dorsal interosseous and abductor digiti minimi bilaterally.  no weakness of the abductor pollicis brevis on either hand.  motor strength testing of the lower extremities 5/5 except for mild weakness of toe extensors 4+/5 bilaterally.  the patient was able to walk on his toes and heels while holding onto the examiner.  deep tendon reflexes 2+ bilaterally at the biceps, triceps, and knees.  absent ankle jerks bilaterally.  toes downgoing.  no spasticity of the lower extremities.   sensory examination:  significant for absent pin prick sensation in both feet up to the level of the knees.  pin prick sensation is diminished in the dorsal aspect of all fingers and the palmar aspect of both hands.  vibratory sensation absent in the toes, intact at the ankles and knees bilaterally.  intact vibratory sensation in the upper extremities.  romberg test significant for body swaying, but the patient did not fall.  tandem gait was poor, but improved when holding the examiner.  no limb ataxia.   laboratory data:  review of previous laboratory tests of may, 2145, bun 36, creatinine 1.7, glucose 310.  december, 2144, tsh normal.  october, 2143, b12 normal.  negative rpr.  the patient said he was tested negative for hiv in 2142, and 2143.  mri of the brain in 2142 and 2143 revealed bilateral white matter changes in the cerebral hemisphere without any intracranial mass lesion.   assessment and plan:  in summary, we have a 63-year-old diabetic man who appears to have significant sensorimotor polyneuropathy with autonomic involvement.  he does have constipation and impotence as well as orthostatic hypotension.  as we discussed on the phone, his antihypertensive medications need to be adjusted and the patient will be following up with you regarding this.  he may benefit from jobst stockings to reduce his symptoms of orthostatic hypotension.  i will be ordering an emg to assess his polyneuropathy and look for any evidence of superimposed ulnar neuropathy or cervical radiculopathy on the left.  the emg should also include rr interval variations and sympathetic skin responses.   mri of the cervical spine was also ordered to rule out any cord compression which may also contribute to loss of sensation in the legs.  the patient does have a history of traumatic cervical herniated disk in 2125.  he may also have had a left elbow injury at this time which can make him prone to develop tardy ulnar palsy.   the patient will return for a follow-up visit after the above tests.   thank you again for referring mr. sandy tuttle to our neurology department.   sincerely,    stanly lang, m.d.    cc: dr. t. villagomez,internal medicine 502f, bellflower doctors hospital    dd:08/13/45 dt:08/17/45 qy:40282   :214