admission date :2011-06-10discharge date :2011-06-13date of birth :1976-04-17sex :mservice :cmed csruhistory of present illness :this is a 35-year-old gentleman with hiv on haart with last cd4 count of 268 and undetectable viral load who was referred to the emergency room via his pcp for progressive throat pain and edema .his throat pain began 2 to 3 days prior to admission , initially treated with ibuprofen , seen in an outside hospital emergency room day prior to admission where he received iv penicillin and was sent home .in clinic today , the patient desaturated to low 90 s with ambulation and also had complaints of progressive swelling " like my throat is going to close up " with increasing drooling , unable to swallow the hiv medications .also noted to have low-grade temperature of 99 to 100 degrees with productive cough and yellow sputum times 1 day withright ear pain .no subjective shortness of breath .the patient describes whole body numbness .he currently notes improvement in his throat pain after some decadron and clindamycin .he was seen by cmed csru in the emergency room and the exam was consistent with supraglottitis .review of systems :review of systems was negative for history of opportunistic infections or prior hospitalizations .of note , his cd4 count was less than 200 last winter .he believes he is up-to-date on all his vaccines .past medical history :hiv times 13 years .last cd4 count of 268 , viral load undetectable , followed at the boston regional medical centerr clinic by dr. taylor .history of anal warts and rectal abscesses and fistula .family history :positive for diabetes .negative for cad .mother with throat cancer .social history :works in a restaurant .lives with his partner .negative barbara .positive occasional alcohol use , occasional pot and crystal meth , but negative iv drug use .medications on admission :1. atazanavir 300 mg q.d.2. ritonavir 100 mg q.d.3. tenofovir 300 mg q.d.4. didanosine 250 mg q.d.allergies :no known drug allergies .physical examination :vital signs :temperature 100.1 degrees , blood pressure 134/79 , pulse 100 , respiratory rate 17 , and saturations 95 percent on room air .general :he is awake , alert , and oriented times 3 and pleasant .heent : positive hoarse whisper .positive drooling .negative trismus or stridor .bilateral tonsillar hypertrophy .no white exudate .right external auditory canal was occluded bycerumen and left external auditory canal clear with tympanic membrane intact .positive anterior cervical lymphadenopathy .cardiovascular :regular and tachycardic .normal s1 and s2 .lungs :bilateral coarse breath sounds .negative rhonchi , rales , or wheezes .abdomen :soft and nontender .extremities :warm , well perfused .no edema .neuro exam :cranial nerves ii through xii are intact .muscles are 05-04 in all extremities with good sensation to light touch .laboratory data on admission :white count 18.3 , neutrophils 89 percent , hematocrit 41 , platelets 261 , inr 1.2 , and chem-7 otherwise normal .chest x-ray was negative for effusions , pneumonia , or pneumothorax .neck with soft tissue prominence of the epiglottitis and uvula consistent with epiglottitis .fiberoptic scope showed swelling of the right epiglottitis extending down to the right aryepiglottic fold obscuring view of the right vocal cord .left vocal cord with glottic airway visible but narrow .positive edema of the left supraglottitis .hospital course :this is a 35-year-old gentleman with hiv on haart , last cd4 count 268 with undetectable viral load who was initially admitted to the cmed csru for supraglottitis with significant edema .problem list :1. epiglottitis / supraglottitis .the patient was observed in the cmed csru for 48 hours and noted to have decrease in swelling on serial exams .he was followed by the cmed csru service and was started on iv decadron initially in addition to iv unasyn , which he tolerated well .his edema was improving and was starting to tolerate p.o.his airway and symptoms continued to improve and remained stable .the patient was stable for transfer to the floor , was treated with over 72 hours of iv unasyn , and then transitioned to oral regimen of augmentin to be continued as an outpatient .eventually , his iv steroids were transitioned to a p.o. steroid taper , which he tolerated well , and was discharged on a steroid taper also with cmed csru follow-up as an outpatient .his oxygenation and symptoms remained stable and again tolerated p.o. without difficulty .eventually , as the patient remained hemodynamically stable , his airway remained stable , and he was tolerating po s, he was transitioned to the floor where he remained otherwise stable and asymptomatic .his voice improved during the course of his stay and was talking clearly by the time of discharge .he remained afebrile during the course of his stay after transfer to the floor and per cmed csru was to be discharged on a 2-week course of augmentin with follow-up with dr. thibodeau in 2 weeks ' time in addition to a medrol dosepak .1. hiv .once , the patient was tolerating p.o. , the patient was restarted on his haart regimen and remained stable from that perspective .discharge condition :good .the patient ambulating without difficulty , tolerating p.o. , stable oxygen saturation , and stable voice by the time of discharge .discharge diagnoses :epiglottitis / supraglottitis .hiv .discharge medications :1. menthol - cetylpyridinium lozenges 1 as needed .2. tenofovir 300 mg p.o. q.d.3. didanosine 250 mg p.o. q.d.4. atazanavir 300 mg p.o. q.d.5. ritonavir 100 mg p.o. q.d.6. calcium carbonate 500 mg p.o. q.d.7. methylprednisolone 4 mg tablets per taper regimen .the patient was to take one 4 mg tablet dinner and at bedtime the day of discharge , then the next day take one 4 mg tablet in the morning , lunch time , and with dinner and then at bedtime , then the third day to take 4 mg tablet in the morning , lunch , and bedtime , the fourth day to take one tablet in the morning and dinner , and in the last day take one 4 mg tablet in the morning .he was also discharged on augmentin xr 1000 mg / 62.5 mg sustained release 1 tablet q. 12h . for 2 weeks .follow-up :the patient was to follow up with his pcp a. l. . taylor in 7 to 10 days , and the patient was to call dr. thibodeau , cmed csru doctor to follow up in 2 weeks ' time .teddy stephen , louisiana 32870dictated by : judy j johnston , m.d.medquist36d : 2011-07-12 15:55:31t : 2011-07-13 11:14:52job #:79962signed electronically by : dr. ruth gibson on : mon 2011-07-18 7:48 am( end of report )