record date: 2064-07-17name:  xochilt vuongmrn:  6398353reason for visit:  xochilt vuong is a 74-year-old patient of dr. wanda yeomans, and is sent because of rising serum creatinine.history of present illness:  ms. vuong has a history of diabetes mellitus going back more than 10 years.  she also has had hypertension and elevated lipids over approximately the same period of time.  she has a complicated history including lung cancer and colon cancer, both treated and in remission.  her creatinine has been rising gradually over recent years with a value of 1.0 in 2062, 1.2 in may 2063, 2.1 and 1.8 in early 2064 with 2.3 in may 2064, and recently 3.1 obtained on july 06, 2064.she has been quite anemic in the recent months with a hematocrit level of 24.9.  her serum folate, b12, and iron and are not particularly low, and mcv is normal at 81.  urinalysis showed 3+ albumin in september 2062 and persisting proteinuria since that time.  dr. yeomans obtained an ultrasound examination in march, which showed diffusely thinned renal cortices, but no evidence of obstruction, stones, or masses.she has visited an ophthalmologist regularly for macular degeneration.  she does not know whether signs of diabetes are present, but she has had no laser treatment for any proliferative retinopathy.recently, she has been feeling unusually fatigued with diminished appetite and almost constant nausea.  she vomits rarely.  her weight has fallen by about 20 pounds.  she is slightly constipated.  she is moderately dyspneic on exertion.  she is not troubled by muscle cramps or by unusual itching of her skin.her medications continue as listed with ace inhibitors, "statins," and a rather large dose of lasix at 80 mg twice a day.medicationspaxil 20.0 mg po 1 tab qdsynthroid 0.05 mg po 1 tab qdmultivitamins 1 tab qdone touch test strips : as directed.lorazepam 0.5 mg po 1 tab qdaccupril (quinapril) 10 mg po 1 tab qdcalcium gluconate 500mg, 2 tablet(s) po bidserevent (salmeterol) 2 puffs nas bidatrovent inhaler (ipratropium inhaler) 2 puffs nas bidecasa (aspirin enteric coated) 81mg, 1 tablet(s) po 1 taqdlasix (furosemide) 80mg, 2 tablet(s) po bidlopressor (metoprolol tartrate) 50mg, 0.5 tablet(s) po bidfe gluconate (ferrous gluconate) 325mg, 1 tablet(s) po tidglucophage (metformin) 500mg, 2 tablet(s) po : 2 tabs po qam, 2 tabs po qpm.caltrate 600 1 tab po bidavandia (rosiglitazone) 4mg, 1 tablet(s) po bidocuvite (multivitamins) 1 tab po qdfosamax (alendronate) 70mg, 1 tablet(s) po qweekprilosec (omeprazole) 20mg, 1 capsule(s) po bidlipitor 40 mg po 1 tab qd physical examination:  on examination today, she looks tired but reasonably comfortable.  she speaks in a high-pitched somewhat hoarse voice, which has persisted since one of her surgical procedures.  her blood pressure in the right arm, sitting, is 148/60 with regular pulse 72.  her chest has a few basal crackles but in general is clear and air moves comfortably.  jvp fills below the sternal angle heart shows a grade 2 systolic murmur, loudest at the upper left sternal border.  abdomen is soft and nontender.  there is no renal tenderness.  extremities have no edema.impression:  progressive renal failure in a 74-year-old woman with more than 10 years' history of diabetes as well has hypertension and hyperlipidemia.  the proteinuria, if confirmed, would support the diagnosis of diabetic nephropathy but this would be unusual in the absence of retinopathy.  it would be useful to know from her ophthalmologist whether retinopathy is present.  it is, of course, also possible that she has vascular disease involving the kidneys.  their symmetry and the presence of proteinuria would argue against this possibility.  the ace inhibitor in the presence of vascular disease might of course raise her serum creatinine by reducing renal blood flow somewhat.  her loss of appetite and nausea may well be related to the degree of renal failure.recommendation:  i would suggest that she see filomena xia, rd, a renal dietitian, to learn a diet appropriate for renal failure as well as for her diabetes and hyperlipidemia.  this might succeed in reducing some of her nausea.  it think it would be worthwhile as an experiment to reduce or discontinue her accupril and perhaps  her lasix temporarily to see whether serum creatinine falls with less ace inhibition and somewhat more fluid volume.  if, of course, shortness of breath worsens or edema appears, then returning to the lasix would be reasonable.  it might be that a longer acting, milder diuretic, such as 5 mg of metolazone might help to control edema (and potassium) and reduce the requirement for lasix.  if serum creatinine fell appreciably with less ace and diuresis, it would reassure us that the damage was not all structural, and it might be then possible to return to these medicines with less worry.her anemia is no doubt related to lack of erythropoietin and would likely benefit from instituting therapy with epogen (such as 4000 units twice a week) or aranesp).plan:  we will send a urine today for total protein to creatinine ratio, which may help us decide whether the problem is mainly diabetic nephropathy.  if so, the measures proposed would be appropriate.  we discussed the eventual probable need for dialysis (assuming no other intercurrent medical catastrophes).  it would be useful for her to visit the dcgh renal department (located here on our floor at 592g, along with ms. xia's office) to learn about modes of dialysis.  we discussed construction of a forearm fistula, which should be done well before a need for it arises.  i would, in fact, recommend that she proceed to have this done in the next few months.  this could be arranged through dr. xaysana's office or perhaps by speaking with dr. najee yuan.  i will, of course, help with any of these measures as necessary.xander xie, m.d.wandaurine total protein/creatinine ratio is only 0.11 (corresponding to about 0.1 g/day or proteinuria).  this is a very small amount for diabetic nephropathy, and argues in favor of vascular disease.  i would suggest getting a mra of renal arteries to look for any main artery obstruction.  if present it would account for the sensitivity of her creatinine to ace or changes in hydration.kyle