032566784 | nemh | 32147963 | | 894255 | 6/15/1993 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 8/5/1993 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/20/1993ssssdiagnosis: hereditary angioedema crisis.paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.shock.c1 esterase inhibitor deficiency( hereditary angioedema ).osteoarthritis.hypothyroidism.history of present illness: the patient is a 71 year old with along history of hereditary angioedema ,history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , who presented withsudden onset of abdominal pain , shock and atrial fibrillation. thepatient has a long history of c1 esterase inhibitor deficiency ,status post emergent tracheostomy times 3 in the distant past , aswell as a history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in the recentpast. she has failed quinidine and propafenone in the past , andshe is maintained in normal sinus rhythm on sotalol. the patientwas admitted for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation with increasedventricular response and was treated with an increased sotalol doseand converted to normal sinus rhythm without electricalcardioversion. the patient was most recently discharged on10 of january three days prior to this admission , the patient presentedwith a flu-like illness with a temperature of 103 orally , and shestayed in bed. the next day , she was afebrile and felt better. onthe day of admission , the patient awoke at 7:00 am with suddenonset of excruciating abdominal pain and she called meo. bridbouldma medical center she went by ambulance there. she said this pain istypical of her attacks , except was much worse than ever before. onarrival at sheph name memorial hospital , the patient was found to behypotensive , clammy , and she was given c1 esterase inhibitor , butremained persistently hypotensive and was transferred to gic hospital her she had a systolic blood pressure of 60and was found to be in atrial fibrillation. a cvl groin line wasplaced and she was given vigorous intravenous fluid hydration. thepatient was started on vancomycin , gentamicin and flagyl to cover apossible bowel source for sepsis. the pains rapidly decreased overthe next 2 hours , typical of her attacks , but still persistedmildly. her blood pressure stabilized and she remained afebrile.past medical history included the c1 esterase inhibitor deficiency ,hereditary angioedema , paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , history ofsubdural hematoma secondary to coumadin , status post appendectomy ,status post total abdominal hysterectomy , osteoarthritis.allergies included multiple foods , sulfa , pcn , novacaine.physical examination: on admission , her temperature was 95.8 ,blood pressure 90/palpable , heart rate inthe 120's and irregularly irregular. head , eyes , ears , nose andthroat examination showed pupils were equal , round , reactive tolight , extraocular movements were intact. neck was withoutswelling , without stridor , no adenopathy. lungs were clear. hearthad s1 , s2 , irregularly irregular. abdomen was diffusely tender ,positive bowel sounds , no rebound , slightly distended. rectalexamination was guaiac negative. neurologic examination showed shewas alert and oriented times 3 , cranial nerves intact.laboratory examination: significant values included blood ureanitrogen 21 , creatinine 1.3 , white count11 , hematocrit 53.2 , arterial blood gases were ph 7.4 , oxygen 413 ,pco2 32 , on 100% face mask. abdominal computerized tomography scanshowed some thickening and some mild edema of her bowel wall , andmoderate to large amount of ascites with no evidence ofperforation. chest x-ray was clear. the electrocardiogram showedatrial fibrillation at 150 , normal axis and intervals , no ischemicchanges.hospital course: the patient was admitted and given vigorousintravenous fluids. her sotalol dose of 120milligrams twice a day was increased to 160 milligrams twice a day.her stanzolol dose of 2 milligrams by mouth every other day wasincreased to 2 milligrams by mouth every 6 hours. the patient wasmonitored very carefully , ruled out for myocardial infarction withflat creatinine phosphokinase levels. her abdominal pain was goneby the next hospital day , and her electrolytes normalized. thepatient had some mild diarrhea , which slowly resolved , and sheremained in atrial fibrillation on the increased sotalol dose. on22 of july , the patient underwent dc-cardioversion and was given 100joules times 2 , and then converted with 200 joules. she remainedin normal sinus rhythm. her qtc was .467 on her increased dose ofsotalol , and so she was maintained on this. the patient wasdischarged in excellent condition.disposition: the patient will be discharged to home. medicationson discharge were sotalol 160 milligrams by mouthtwice a day , stanzolol 2 milligrams by mouth each day , synthroid 15micrograms by mouth each day , aspirin 1 by mouth each day. thepatient is to follow-up with dr. rufus salvittidictated by: darin h. hickey , m.d. ma33attending: cornell dhamer , m.d. eh6te891/2696batch: 3447 index no. svmqc3zkt d: 5/24/93t: 1/26/93cc: ezekiel e. lupoe , m.d. kd5