record date: 2085-11-12reason for visitthis is a  61 year old  male referred to the diabetes management service for poorly  controlled diabeteschief complaintthis patient is admitted to the hospital for right knee replacemnethistory of present illnessthe patient has a 20   year history of type 2 diabetes.  he originally was treated with oral agents with poor control.  currently the patient is treated with  70/30 15 qam,, nph 25 hs  and metformin 1 grm qd  . the control has been improved with recent a1c 8%.  the patient tests his blood sugar qd or bid   .  exercise is  limited because of joint problems     ,and the weight decreased 10 pounds prior to this surgery the patient has  not been bothered by hypoglycemia.  diabetic complications include  nephropathy with moderate albunimuria.patient underwent right total knee replacement and he should be eating supper tonight. while in the hospital glucose levels have been  140 on d5w drip.past medical historyconcurrent medical problems include:cad,recent stent,kidney stones,htn,hyperlipidemia,toe ulcer resolved, djd lumbar spinefamily historyfamily history is negative for diabetes       social historythe patient is currently disabled       .habitsthe patient is not a smoker.review of systemsros: multile joint problemsfeels well in general. no polyuria, dysuria, polydipsia, change in bowel habits or gi distress. denies symptoms of skin, bladder upper respiratory infections. energy appropriate, sleep unremarkable, mood stable. no palpitations or dizziness, headaches or visual symptoms.medslasixatenololdiovanlisinoprillipitorasaplavixinsulin/metforminlaboratory datarelevant lab data:hga1c 8%cholesterol profile  ldl  64  creatinine .8urine microalbumin screen 80physical examvitals bp 140/80 p  75 wt.270skin no acanthosis, no diabetic dermopathyheent no asymmetry, no lid lagneck no bruits heard no thyromegaly chest clearcor s1, s2 normal, no murmursabd obese,  no tenderness, no massesextremities no edema, no ulcers dorsalis pedis pulses intact, right knee surgery neuro    vibratory sense intact  monofilament testing intactimpressionmy impression is that he is currently moderately controlled on his current regime. while in hospital would start with close to his usual dosing and adjust as needed.recommendationmy recommendations are:1.nph 10 qam and 25 qhs2.novolog 5 units ac3.novolog sliding scale ac use default scale to start4.pneumovac5.flu shot___________________elizabeth m keys, m.d.