record date: 2076-05-04reason for visitpatient is here to establish primary carehe has metastatic prostate cancer and has completed 12 cycles of radiation to the back with good effect. last psa was 1.7.  is receiving lupron every 3 months (after his 6 weeks pf casodex).;history of present illnessmr. quin presented in 2061 with a psa of around 4 and a prostate cancer of unknown clinical grade. radical retropubic prostatectomy was performed in the bnh system, and disease extended beyond the prostate to the margins of the resection and into the seminal vesicle. in early 2062 he received adjuvant radiation. his psa remained undetectable throughout the 2060s, but was troubled by a great deal of radiation cystitis with hematuria, frequency, and dysuria. in addition, he was totally incontinent. in 2071 his psa was undetectably low.   over the last 8 months, he has developed low back pain of progressively increasing severity. his psa back in september 2075 was approximately 3 and when checked in november was 17. early this year his pain was of great severity, and repeat ct scans and bone scans were performed. destructive disease was seen in the body of l4 with foraminal encroachment. the thecal sac and the cauda quina were, however, intact. he was started in early february on bicalutamide and was scheduled to have a zoladex injection, but his pain became more and more severe, and ultimately he was admitted to the lmh last week where i first met him. since admission he was started on urgent radiotherapy and has completed 12 cycles of radation with a last psa of 1.7.  he is due for lupron injection on 6/13/76 at which time a psa will be checked.his oncologist dr. leblanc has helped him wean the ms contin and tried to start adding low dose gabapentin as a narcotic sparing agent for presumed neuropathic pain.  he is not requiring his prn pain meds very often.he has claudication.he has symmetric leg edema worse right after lupron injection and improved with teds.  no chest symptoms.problems      prostate cancerplan as above      claudication    : has buttock pain when walking which resolves when stopping.  he has decreased pulses in his dps bilaterally and has a h/o smoking and diabetes.      diabetes mellitus type 2checks his sugars infrequently.  he is on glyburide 10 am 5 pm.  he had his eyes checked by an opthalmologist recently and no evidence of retinopathy was present. he has no early satiety, blurry vision, polyuria polydipsia, foot ulcers, chest pain, shorteness of breath, but does have some claudication.  he is not on an ace- inhibitor, takes hctz for bp control and has had hematuria from aspirin.past medical historyas abovesee cas notefamily historysee cassocial historysee cashabitshe has stopped smoking. good social supportreview of systemspositives noted in problem list.  otherwise negative in detail.vital signs      blood pressure   150/93       pulse   65       respiratory rate   12       weight   202 lbphysical examgeneral: well appearing walking much better with his cane.skin: no rashes.heent: nc/at.  eoms intact.  perrl b.  va od [] os [].  hearing grossly intact.  tms clear b.  op clear without exudate.neck: supple, from.  no thyromegaly or nodules.  2+ carotids b without bruits.  no lad.chest: cta b.  no wheeze, rales.cor: jvp 4 cm.  nl s1, s2.  no s3, s4, murmurs.abdomen: +bs.  soft, nd/nt.  no hsm.back: no spinous process tenderness or cvat.ext: no cyanosis, clubbing but has mild bilateral ankle edema.decreased pulses in dp and pt but good capillary refillno charcots joints or ulcers in his legs or feetno cords or calf pain on palpation stocking glove sensory neuropathy to vibration temperature and proprioceptionreflexes are normalmedicationsglycuride 10am 5 pmhctz 12.5 mg po qdcolace tidmscontin 30 mg am 30 pm with morphine 15 mg q4h for breakthough but not needing it.prilosec 40gabapentin just restarted 100 mg po tiddisposition and plans1. pain- i think he has a component of neuropathic pain.  i think that we will start low dose neuronitni 100 tid for 7 days, he will email me about how his pain is and we will cut his pm mscontin in half if we can.  i do not want to have to use exteremely high doses of gabapentin to spare narcotics because he is not a drug seeker and i want him to be comfortable and he has no congnitive problems with safe adminstration or dosing.  his psa is low and will continue to follow.  if his pain is at night which sometimes it is, he could have a component of restless legs from arterial insufficiency, will check pvrs anyway to rule that out2. cluadication- check pvrs, most likely has bilateral iliofemoral disease. he does not want to take aspirin given hiematuria in the past. i will broach this issue next time again3. dm- will email me his sugars and will adjust oral agents as necessary,. he needs u/a for microalb, eas encourgagd to wear shoes in house, will check pvrs, will start low dose lisinopril for bp and prevention of diabetic nephropathy and heck creatinine and k one week after starting the medicaiton.  will check lipids.  will continue to monitor bp.  will start aspirin when he is willing. plan to follow up with patient by emailwill see in clinic rtc in 3 months eddie zajac md 94212seen w/ dr. alaniz who agrees with plan.