941137536 | rh | 03273863 | | 250164 | 2/4/1995 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 5/26/1995 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/14/1995discharge diagnosis: infection/rule out endocarditis.significant problems: 1 ) status post staphylococcus endocarditisin march 1995.2 ) status post aortic valve replacementtimes three with st. jude in april 1995.3 ) non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus.history of present illness: this is a 65 year old man with ahistory of rheumatic heart diseasestatus post aortic valve replacement times three who suffered acutebacterial endocarditis ( staphylococcus aureus , not mrsa ) in 5/26he presented with nausea , vomiting times one , "a black out" ,weakness , and temperature of 101.2 the morning of admission. thispatient was admitted back on 10/5/95 with fever times five days ,nasal congestion , and change in mental status. he was found in bedwith fecal incontinence and increased confusion at that time. backin october 1995 , the initial te showed no vegetation. he wastreated with cefotaxime and vancomycin. patient subsequentlydeveloped atrial fibrillation with congestive heart failure and thehypertension. on october , he was intubated at which time a teshowed aortic vegetations. blood cultures grew staphylococcusaureus and the antibiotics were changed to oxacillin andtobramycin. patient underwent a high risk redo aortic valvereplacement with st. jude mechanical valve because of persistentsepsis. the antibiotics were narrowed to oxacillin. patient had anumber of septic embolic events and emboli were thrown to the brainwith a right mca stroke and the spleen as well as the duodenum. on2/30 , he had an elevated white count , increasing temperature , andincreasing renal failure. at that time , the ct showed these renaland splenic abscesses and patient was taken to the operating room.he underwent a splenectomy and was found to have a perforatedduodenal ulcer. he underwent vagotomy with pyeloplasty. thespleen showed multiple abscesses which grew out candida. on thisadmission , the patient was in his usual state of good health untilone week prior to admission when he experienced fatigue. atbaseline , the patient experienced intermittent sharp chest painfelt to be musculoskeletal secondary to open thoracic surgery.patient also experienced pins and needle feelings felt in bothhands. on the night prior to admission , the patient sneezedexperiencing increased back pain. later that night , he awokediaphoretic with aches and pains in the legs. patient was sick inthe stomach but believed he would feel better if he ate watermelonwhereupon finishing , he had nausea and vomiting times one. patientwent back to bed and awoke with joint pain throughout withtemperature at 7 a.m. on 100.1 degrees. later while sitting in achair trying to dress , he stood and things started "to go black".he walked towards the bathroom , got weak , knew he was going down ,avoided falling down the stairs , and landed on all fours on hishands and knees. patient denied head trauma and suffered noinjury. he had no loss of continence or seizure activity. patientgot up and moved to the bathroom under his own power. he had asmall bowel movement and felt better. wife returned home andtemperature at 9 a.m. was 101.2. patient was taken to ertj. health urgent care center. at ctach , he received blood cultures timestwo and blood tests before being brought to the gra forro memorial hospital emergency room. patient denied any recent cough , sorethroat , dysuria , and hematuria but did note increased nasalcongestion and shortness of breath over the past month.past medical history: 1 ) history of rheumatic heart disease withaortic valve replacement times three in3/26 , 1981 , and 5/26 2 ) acute staphylococcus aureus bacterialendocarditis with septic emboli to brain , kidney , and spleen in6/8 3 ) status post splenectomy and candida cultured out. 4 )duodenal ulcer status post resection and gastrectomy with vagotomy.5 ) status post multiple cerebrovascular accidents. 6 ) low backpain. 7 ) vertigo on meclizine. 8 ) benign prostatic hypertrophy.9 ) non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. 10 ) paroxysmalatrial fibrillation.current medications: beclovent and ventolin puffers , lopressor 25mg b.i.d. , glyburide 2.5 mg q.d. , hytrin 5 mgq.h.s. , senokot two tablets b.i.d. , colace 100 mg b.i.d. , andcoumadin 4 alternating with 5 mg q.p.m.allergies: penicillin caused a rash.social history: tobacco of three packs per day times thirty yearsand alcohol quit fifteen years ago. the patientwas unemployed on disability , he was a painter's rigger , andmarried times 24 years with four children from his first wife , nowliving with his second wife.physical examination: patient's temperature was 101.6 , bloodpressure 96/60 , pulse 88 , and respirations28. heent: pupils were equal and reactive to light andaccommodation , extraocular muscles were intact , normal funduscopicexamination , no roth spots were noted , the oropharynx was benign ,and no petechiae were noted. neck: supple and there was nolymphadenopathy , his jugular venous distention was absent , an ejline was in place , and there was a 2+ carotid with zero bruits.chest: clear to auscultation bilaterally. heart: regular rateand rhythm , s1 and s2 , and there was a holosystolic ii/vi systolicmurmur at the left sternal border with no s3 or s4 noted. therewas a very crisp click from the st. jude aortic valve. abdomen:examination showed positive bowel sounds , soft , non-tender , andnon-distended. rectal: refused by patient. neurological:examination showed that the patient was alert and oriented timesthree , cranial nerves ii-xii were intact , motor was 5/5 in all fourextremities distally and proximally , sensory was normal to lighttouch and proprioception , and the reflexes were equal andsymmetric. cerebellar was slow , equal repetitive motions , and thef&f was slow but equal with good tracking grossly.laboratory examination: of note , his white count was 19.1 with 18bands and 53 polys , hematocrit was 41.8 ,and the electrolytes were all within normal range. the bilirubinswere 0.8 total , alkaline phosphatase 82 , sgpt of 15 , and his pt was20.7 with an inr of 3.4. a transthoracic echo obtained uponadmission showed the aortic valve was in place , there was a 2.9meters per second flow through the aortic valve , and there was noabscess or vegetation noted. patient had reportedly gotten twoblood cultures in ari norer legulf hospital and it turned out later that therehad only been one blood draw. one blood culture was also drawn inthe emergency room at the thoter coast community healthcare . chestx-ray showed cardiomegaly , no infiltrate , and no congestive heartfailure and his ekg at admission showed normal sinus rhythm at 89with an axis of minus 20 , intervals were 0.26/0.90/0.36 , there wasa flipped t in lead i , avl , v5 , and v6 , and there was first degreeav block.hospital course: this is a 65 year old gentleman who had had threeaortic valve replacements and had sufferedoverwhelming endocarditis as recently as six months ago in thereplaced st. jude valve at that time with a high risk valve sincepatient was known to be febrile at the time of valve replacement.therefore , the number one problem was to rule out endocarditis.the patient had two blood cultures , one at the acraw medical center and oneat ter'svenwhi rywick hospital , which were negative times 48 hourswhile the patient was maintained on vancomycin and gentamicin. itwas judged that a te would not change our treatment for thisgentleman and it was not obtained. an infectious diseaseconsultation was obtained and infectious disease recommendedobserving the patient on antibiotics for an extra 24 hours beforedeeming him non-bacteremic and then to observe the gentleman offantibiotics for 24 hours before discharging him. in regards toanti-coagulation , the patient was targeted for an inr of 3 with ahigh risk prosthetic heart valve. this was easily maintained usingthe patient's normal alternating 4 and 5 mg q.p.m. coumadin. finalissue was the patient's fall. it was judged that the patientactually became weak and went down on all fours controlling hisfall without actual syncope. the weakness could be attributed tothe patient's nausea , vomiting , dehydration , and vasovagal. finalissue was the non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. while thepatient was hospitalized , the glyburide was held and patient wasmaintained on a sliding scale of insulin. patient's blood culturesremained negative times three days while patient was treated withvancomycin and gentamicin. as per infectious diseaserecommendations , the intravenous antibiotics were held on the thirdday and then patient was observed for 24 hours off antibiotics. hecontinued to remain afebrile through the entire hospitalization andpatient was discharged to home on september .disposition: disposition is to home.discharge medications: tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. headache ,ventolin two puffs inhaled b.i.d. ,beclovent two puffs inhaled b.i.d. , beconase two puffs inhaledq.i.d. p.r.n. congestion , colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. , meclizine 25mg p.o. t.i.d. , lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. , senokot tablets twotablets p.o. q.a.m. , coumadin 4 mg p.o. q.o.d. alternating with 5mg p.o. q.o.d. , every day , patient took either 4 or 5 alternating ,and glyburide 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. patient was not discharged on anyantibiotics.condition on discharge: stable.follow-up: arranged with his attending , dr. andre raju for thefollowing week. patient was also arranged to have anmri scan of his spine on wednesday , 6/6 , at noon. this is torule out possibilities of osteomyelitis since patient had had lowback pain since septic events of 5/26dictated by: marcos m. brantley , m.d. ee00attending: mckinley a. tercero , m.d. rc62ei591/4537batch: 14386 index no. jfnoj654cj d: 6/10/95t: 8/24/95