086513773fih507870658262/gv5v008122martin luther king day 12:00:00 amdischarge summaryunsigneddisreport status :unsignedadmission date :martin luther king daydischarge date :01/22/93history of present illness :mr. louplardkote is a 70 year old male who was admitted for coronary artery bypass grafting .he has been followed by his local physician for heart block which has progressed and culminated in a ddd pacer being inserted 02/92 .in march , 1993 he noted chest discomfort with exertion .an exercise tolerance test and stress thallium showed septal and anterior wall ischemia .in october , 1993 the patient developed shortness of breath and orthopnea .an echocardiogram at the time revealed left ventricular dilatation and septal dyskinesis .the patient subsequently developed congestive heart failure which was treated with diuretics .on 12/29 the patient underwent cardiac catheterization which revealed a right coronary artery that had serial stenosis , and left anterior descending artery that had a long complex proximal lesion and a circumflex which had its first obtuse marginal which was stenotic .the left ventriculogram showed global hypokinesis and preserved left ventricular function with mitral valve prolapse without regurgitation .the patient is thus admitted for coronary artery bypass grafting .past medical history :1 ) hypercholesterolemia ,2 ) arthritis ,3 ) history of guaiac-positive stools with a lower gastrointestinal endoscopy negative three years ago ,4 ) status post appendectomy .medications on admission :toprol xl 50 mg. po q.day , ismo 20 mg. po bid , lasix 40 mg. d , lopid 600 mg. po bid , questran 1 scoop po bid , nitroglycerin spray prn .allergies :no known drug allergies .physical examination :his head , eyes , ears , nose , and throat exam was benign .cardiac exam revealed a normal s1 and s2 with a i-ii / vi late systolic murmur radiating to the apex .lungs were clear .abdomen was benign .rectal :guaiac negative , no lesions , smooth prostate .vascular exam ; 2+ pulses throughout bilaterally without bruits .laboratory data :on admission , chest x-ray revealed two nodular opacities that were projected over the left lung , one over the anterior aspect of the left fourth rib and the other over the interspace between the anterior sixth and seventh ribs .these were also seen on previous film .these were felt to be consistent with a granulomata .there was also a bipolar pacemaker present .creatinine was 0.9 , bun 13 , hematocrit was 40 .hospital course :the patient was admitted to the hospital on 01/15/93 and on the following day was taken to the operating room where he underwent a saphenous coronary artery bypass graft to the diagonal , circumflex marginal artery , and acute marginal coronary artery and left internal mammary artery graft to the left anterior descending coronary artery .this operation was performed by dr. chitllik kote .intraoperative findings were as follows :the pericardium was opened to reveal a heart that appeared essentially normal .the diagonal coronary artery was isolated , opened and probed with a 1.5 millimeter probe .the circumflex marginal artery was small and only took a 1 millimeter probe tightly .the first main was anastomosed side to side to the diagonal and end to end to the circumflex marginal artery .the left anterior descending artery was then isolated , opened , probed with a 1.5 millimeter probe and anastomosed to the left internal mammary artery .the acute marginal branch of the right coronary artery was isolated , opened and probed with a 1.5 millimeter probe tightly and a second main was anastomosed to this .the patient tolerated the procedure well and was transported to the surgical intensive care unit in stable condition on nitroglycerin at 50 mcg. per minute levophed at 4 mcg. per minute and lidocaine at 1 mg. r minute .the patient was extubated on postoperative day # 1 and transported to the routine postoperative care floor on postoperative day # 2 in good condition .the only issue of note during the patient 's sicu course was a small right apical pneumothorax which disappeared on repeat chest x-ray .the other issue was that the pacer lab was consulted for an atrial sensing problem .the pace setter 2022 synchrony ii was interrogated .it was found to have inadequate atrial sensing , even post re-programming to the maximum sensitivity at 0.5 millivolts .no changes with unipolar ring or tip .the v threshhold was changed from 0.6 millivolts/ 2.0 millivolts to 0.8 millivolts/ 4.0 millivolts .the v sensor was changed from 4 millivolts to 2 millivolts .it was felt that the atrial pacing would improve as the edema resolved .meanwhile , the patient was av paced using the epicardial wires .while on the routine postoperative care floor the patient continued to progress well .of note , he developed a small right apical pneumothorax which was followed on serial films and found to be stable and was not causing the patient any respiratory distress .also , the pacer service re-programmed the patient 's cardiac pacer to a vvir mode with a rate of 60 beats per minute , an av delay of 175 , a maximum track of 120 .the ventricular pulse configuration was bipolar with a v-pulse width of .8 , a v-pulse amplitude of 4.0 , a v-sense configuration of bipolar , a v-sensitivity of 2.0 and a v-refractory of 250 .the atrial pulse configuration was bipolar with an a-pulse width of .4 , an a-pulse amplitude of 2.5 , an a-sensed configuration that was bipolar , an a-sensitivity that was .5 , an a-refractory that was 325 .blanking was set at 38 , av-safety option was on enable , pvc options were on , pmt options were off , a rate respiratory av-delay was on enable , a magnet was temporary off .the threshhold was 2.0 .the measured average sensor was 2.0 .the slope was 8 .the maximum sensory rate was 110 .the reaction time was fast , the recovery time was medium .the patient continued to progress well and was ultimately discharged on 01/22/93 in good condition .discharge diagnosis :coronary artery disease .principal procedure :saphenous coronary artery bypass graft to the diagonal , circumflex marginal artery and acute marginal coronary artery and left internal mammary artery graft to the left anterior descending artery on 01/17/93 by dr. chitllik kote .condition on discharge :good .medications on discharge :lasix 40 mg. po q.day , ecotrin 325 mg. po q.day , iron 325 mg. po tid , folate 1 mg. po q.day , lopid 600 mg. po bid , questran 1 scoop bid .disposition :the patient was discharged to home .he will followup with dr. chitllik kote , cardiothoracic surgery ; with dr. naka jesc of cardiology ; and with dr. tomedankell flowayles of sephsandpot center in chandbay .leen paugbreun , m.d.dictating for :chitllik kote , m.d.tr :xd / bmotdd :01/24/93td :01/26/93cc :chitllik kote , m.d. naka jesc , m.d. tomedankell flowayles , m.d. t. medical center , carsterl , minnesota edited 02/24/93