record #110514206771600 | bc | 43552578 | | 3746462 | 3/16/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 9/18/2005 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: burt everett penisson m.d.discharge date: to be determined.service: gms raprimary diagnosis: failure to thrive.secondary diagnoses: congestive heart failure ,hypercholesterolemia , gastroesophageal reflux disease , venousstasis , postherpetic neuralgia , atrial fibrillation , and urinarytract infection.history of present illness: this is an 87-year-old female with ahistory of congestive heart failure , atrial fibrillation statuspost pacemaker placement , and chronic venous stasis who presentswith nausea , vomiting , and failure to thrive. the patient wasrecently admitted to tapo waycent smouthnew community hospital in earlymarch with a congestive heart failure exacerbation and lowerextremity cellulitis. she was treated with diuresis ( ultimatelywith ethacrynic acid as she developed a rash on torsemide anditching with lasix ) and a seven-day course of levofloxacin. atthe end of this admission , she was sent to a rehabilitationfacility. the patient had returned on the day of admission tosee her primary care physician. she had been vomiting andappears severely dehydrated. she reported nausea and vomitingfor eight to nine days , intermittent nonbloody , nonbilious. shealso reported dysphagia for the last two months. she describesrecent dysuria. she also states that she has had no bowelmovement for a week prior to admission. she has had flatus. shealso complains of a baseline right ear pain due to herpostherpetic neuralgia. she has significantly decreased p.o.intake with increasing generalized weakness. she denies chestpain or shortness of breath.past medical history: congestive heart failure ,hypercholesterolemia , gastroesophageal reflux disease , venousstasis , t6 fracture and lower back pain , history of herpes zosterwith postherpetic neuralgia affecting the right face and ear ,atrial fibrillation status post pace replacement , and history ofguaiac-positive stools.medications: colace , senna , lisinopril 5 mg q. day , lopressor 25mg b.i.d. , oxycodone 5 mg q.6h. p.r.n. pain , oxycontin 10 mgq.12h. , calcium 500 mg t.i.d. , neurontin 100 mg b.i.d. , fosamax70 mg q. week , protonix 40 mg q. day , and ethacrynic acid 25 mgb.i.d.allergies: lasix , torsemide , penicillin , erythromycin , capsicum ,and quinidine.social history: recently at the orva sonapa alblands inme , otherwise , lives alone in rham en ma at baseline isambulatory with a walker. remote history of tobacco , quit 50years ago. no history of alcohol use.family history: asthma and heart disease in three brothers.physical examination on admission: temperature 96 , heart rate81 , blood pressure 119/56 , respiratory rate of 20 , o2 sat 99% onroom air. the patient is alert , but uncomfortable and illappearing. heent: pupils equal and reactive to light.extraocular movements intact. mucous membranes are dry.oropharynx is otherwise clear. there is ptosis of the right lid( baseline ) and exquisite tenderness over the right base and rightear. neck: jvp is 7 cm. neck is otherwise supple with notenderness to palpation. cardiovascular: regular rate andrhythm with a 2/6 systolic murmur at the apex. lungs are clearto auscultation bilaterally. abdomen: soft , nontender ,nondistended with normal active bowel sounds. foley in placedraining a dark , cloudy urine. extremities: violaceous skinchanges of the legs bilaterally. 2+ edema. there is an area oferythema in the left medial great toe , but no evidence ofinfected ulceration. neuro: alert and oriented x3. cranialnerves intact ( except right lid ptosis ). the patient did notfeel well enough to cooperate with a full neurologic exam , buther strength was symmetric throughout.labs on admission: remarkable for a chemistry panel withinnormal limits. bun was 22 , creatinine 1.1 , white count was13.27 , hematocrit 41.4 , platelets 448 , 000 , alt 25 , ast 35 ,alkaline phosphatase 339 , total bilirubin 1.0 , albumin 4.0 ,amylase 39 , and lipase 14.impression: an 87-year-old female presenting with nausea ,vomiting , and dehydration as well as dysuria , most likely mainlydue to urinary tract infection secondary to chronic foleyplacement.hospital course by systems:1. cardiovascular:a. ischemia: no acute issues. the patient was continued on herbeta-blocker. no aspirin was given , as the patient is oncoumadin and has a history of guaiac-positive stool.b. pump: the patient was dry on admission in the setting ofnausea , vomiting , and decreased p.o. intake. her last echoshowed an ef of 55% presumed diastolic dysfunction ,mild-to-moderate mr as well as pulmonary hypertension of unclearetiology ( pulmonary artery pressure was 64 mmhg plus right atrialpressure ). initially , the patient's ethacrynic acid was heldgiven dehydration , but was restarted towards the end of heradmission and titrated out to b.i.d. dosing to maintain aslightly negative fluid balance. the patient was also continuedon her beta-blocker and ace inhibitor after she was adequatelyhydrated for blood pressure control.c. rhythm: the patient has a history of paroxysmal atrialfibrillation. she has a pacer placed and is v-paced. she is oncoumadin with her inr at goal.2. pulmonary: the admission chest x-ray was read as a streakyopacity of the right lung base possibly representing aninfiltrate , but curve has been artifact due to low lung volume.the patient had no clinical evidence of pneumonia ( no cough , lungexam clear ).3. gi: the patient had nausea , vomiting for several days priorto admission with decreased p.o. intake. she also reported nobowel movement in the last weeks prior to admission. a kub wasobtained on admission , which showed no evidence of obstruction orfree air. the patient was given stool softeners and laxativesp.r.n. and began to have her regular bowel movements. she wascontinued on nexium for her history of gastroesophageal refluxdisease. the patient's nausea and vomiting improved overallthroughout her admission , however , intermittently returned.there is no clear cause for this nausea and vomiting , but it wasthought likely to be a contribution of her opioid medications ,which were increased early on in her hospitalization to addressher postherpetic neuralgia. the patient's nausea improved withreglan. nausea , vomiting was improved on the day of discharge.the patient had significantly better p.o. intake. the patientalso complained of dysphagia for two months prior to admission ,this occurred mainly with solid foods. per speech and swallow ,the patient was initially on a soft mechanical/thin liquid dietand is concerned for an obstructive lesion. a video swallow wasobtained on 8/11/05. this study showed no aspiration and normalpassage of fluid of varying consistencies ( although a note wasmade of cricopharyngeal prominence ). speech and swallowrecommended a minced solid/thin liquid diet , which the patienthas tolerated well. the patient has a history of an elevatedalkaline phosphatase ( with elevated ggt ) of unclear etiology.abdominal ultrasound on her last admission in march 2005showed gallstones , but no other process to explain theabnormalities in alkaline phosphatase. the patient had no rightupper quadrant pain on this admission.4. renal/fen: the patient was initially given intravenousfluids for dehydration. she was also found to have a urinarytract infection and was initially started on levofloxacinempirically. the urine culture returned was staph aureus ( thepatient has had indwelling foley ) and the patient was switched todoxycycline ( the patient is allergic to sulfa drugs , penicillin ,and erythromycin ). blood cultures were negative. the patienthas been afebrile through this admission. she was also noted tohave a urinary retention on a few occasions where an attempt wasmade to remove her foley catheter. this was thought most likelydue to urinary tract infection and to use opioid medications.the patient will be discharged to rehab with her foley in placeand is scheduled for a follow-up appointment with urology onmarch , 2005.5. neuro: the patient has postherpetic neuralgia affecting herright face/ear. she was admitted on oxycontin and oxycodone ,which was titrated out in an attempt to make her more comfortableand neurontin was also titrated out with good effect on her pain.given her nausea and urinary retention , the patient's opioidmedications were decreased. a trial of a lidoderm patch on theaffected area was attempted prior to discharge.6. heme: the patient's inr was at goal ( 2 to 3 ) on coumadin forher history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.7. prophylaxis: the patient was on nexium and coumadin.8. code status: dnr/dni.9. disposition: the patient will be discharged to arehabilitation facility. she will follow up with her primarycare doctor dr. eddie nitterhouse in addition , an appointment hasbeen made for her to see dr. nang on march , 2005 at 9:30a.m. in addition , an appointment has been made with dr. storchin neurology on march , 2005 at 11:15 a.m. and it is requestedthat the patient's basic metabolic panel be monitored while sheis on ethacrynic acid. in addition , her weight should befollowed daily to check for fluid accumulation. she will alsobenefit from physical therapy as she is deconditioned. thepatient is stable at the time of this dictation.the discharge medications will be dictated in an addendum to thisdischarge summary.escription document: 2-6327618 issten telcc: jerry stammler m.d.ijelos memorial hospitaltersan longgao baltcc: levi jackie corderman m.d.dictated by: hovda , garthattending: quimet , harold dandictation id 1599560d: 5/1/05t: 11/9/05[report_end]