210974938fih413938198764/u6tl7222065/30/1993 12:00:00 amintravenous chemotherapy .unsigneddisreport status :unsignedadmission date :5-30-93discharge date :6-2-93principal diagnosis :intravenous chemotherapy .associated diagnosis :left upper lobe large cell carcinoma of the lung .adverse drug reactions :none .clinical infections :nonespecial procedures and operations :intravenous chemotherapy .history of present illness :the patient is a 63 year old woman with a history of mixed adenocarcinoma and large cell carcinoma of the left upper lobe of the lung who is being admitted for neoadjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatinum , 5-fu and velban .her history has been well documented in her previous notes .briefly , she was originally diagnosed in april 1993 with lung carcinoma .bronchoscopy and mediastinoscopy revealed an unresectable mediastinal tumor with the left tracheobronchial angle node positive for cancer , and the right paratracheal node positive for anthracosis .formal pathology revealed a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with focal giant cells .bone scan , head ct and other staging studies were all negative for evidence of metastatic disease .the patient is being treated with preoperative neoadjuvant chemotherapy using 5 fu , vinblastine , cisplatinum and concomitant radiation therapy .she is now admitted for her second course of that therapy .physical examination :temperature 98.9 , pulse 82 , respirations 20 .heent :pupils equal , round , reactive to light and accommodation , extra ocular movements were intact .sclera were anicteric .the oropharynx was clear .the neck was supple without jvd .the lungs showed decreased breath sounds at the right base , otherwise were clear .the cardiac exam showed a regular rate and rhythm with a i / vi systolic ejection murmur .abdomen was soft and nontender , without masses or hepatosplenomegaly .rectal exam was guaiac negative .extremities were without clubbing , cyanosis or edema .neurologic exam revealed a resting tremor in the right arm and hand .laboratory data :white blood count 6.2 , hemoglobin 12.4 , hematocrit 36.1 , platelet count 265,000 .the liver function tests were within normal limits .bun 8 , creatinine 0.9 .hospital course :the patient was admitted to the oncology service on founder 's 7 and received intravenous chemotherapy with a 72 hour continuous infusion of 5-fu , vinblastine on day 1 and day 3 , and cisplatinum on day 1 .she tolerated the chemotherapy well with mild nausea and vomiting .she had mild increase in her hypertension during the hospitalization , likely secondary to fluid overload .she also had some modest anemia , at the time of discharge her hematocrit was 30.9 .overall there were no unanticipated side effects of this chemotherapy .following her recovery from chemotherapy , she will proceed to surgical resection .discharge diagnosis :intravenous chemotherapy for lung cancer .doctors discharge orders :slo-mag one tab p.o. b.i.d. stelazine 2 mg. p.o. q.d. ativan 1 mg p.o. or s.l. q. 4-6 hr. p.r.n. nausea .work disability and probable duration , complete .followup will be with dr. guabenfranda day in his office .ca shuff , m.d.tr :ds / bmotdd :6-2 93td :06/04/93cc :guabenfranda day , m.d.