record #55681039616050 | kh | 27101753 | | 4082027 | 5/28/2006 12:00:00 am | failure to thrive | signed | dis | admission date: 5/19/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/24/2006attending: lozaya , rigoberto m.d.primary care provider:dr. eddy long randklevvange medical centertempe ingnor lakenavertprincipal diagnosis: metastatic gastric cancer.list of other problems and diagnoses: coronary artery diseasestatus post myocardial infarction in 1992 followed by cabg of twovessels. upper gi bleed from a gastric ulcer , anemia , gerd ,hypertension , diabetes type 2 , and history of buttock cellulitis.brief history of present illness: the patient is a 65-year-old male , history of cad status post mi and cabg , upper gi bleed fromgastric ulcer admitted for failure to thrive , nausea and vomitingand chronic abdominal discomfort. the patient most recently wasadmitted on 1/28/2006 for upper gi bleed from a gastric ulcer ,which was cauterized on egd during that admission , however ,without any biopsy. unfortunately , he was then discharged oniron supplementation , told to avoid aspirin and alcohol in set upwith a followup egd in 3 months , however , since then the patienthas had persistent nausea and vomiting combined with burping andinability to tolerate p.o. , especially solids. his vomit hasbeen nonbloody yellow. he also reports a 20 pound weight lossover the last two months. he describes a chronic epigastricdiscomfort over the time , which is more of a "hunger feeling thenan acute pain". denies any change in bowel movements includinghematochezia although he has chronic black colored stools , whichhe attributes to his iron supplementation. he reports weightloss. he reported a weight loss to his pcp who sent him to theed for further evaluation of this abdominal pain with a suspicionof gi bleeding. in the ed , he only had minimally guaiac positivestool , however right upper quadrant ultrasound revealed multiplehepatic lesions. the patient was then admitted for inability totolerate p.o. and the concurrent workup of cancer.allergies: the patient has no known drug allergies.brief admission physical exam: on admission , the patient hadstable vital signs with a temperature of 98.1 , pulse of 57 , bloodpressure 158/72 , respirating 16 with an oxygenation of 96% onroom air. he was in no apparent distress , alert and oriented x3.he had a flat jvp. he had a sternal scar. he had regular rateand rhythm with a normal s1 and s2 , no murmurs , rubs or gallops.his lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. his abdomenwas slightly obese. it was soft with positive bowel sounds. hehad mild discomfort to deep palpation but no tenderness , nopalpable hepatosplenomegaly but questionable dullness topercussion at the left final intercostal space in the midaxillary line. his extremities were without edema with goodpulses.pertinent labs: chemistry panel was unremarkable. his cbc wasunremarkable as well. he had except for low hematocrit of 31.2.his lfts were unremarkable except for mildly elevated , ast at 31.as mentioned above , he had right upper quadrant ultrasound ,which showed multiple hepatic lesions.hospital course by system: gi/onc: the patient was admittedwith nausea , vomiting and inability to tolerate p.o. , along witha weight loss. he had an emergency room right upper quadrantultrasound with hepatic lesions , which was highly suspicious ofmalignancy and he was thus admitted for inability to toleratep.o. and a concurrent workup of his hepatic lesions formalignancy. he had an abdominal ct , which confirmed that therewas a gastric mass and hepatic lesions with surroundinglymphadenopathy. he subsequently had an egd , which revealed afungating mass which was later confirmed on biopsy to be invasiveadenocarcinoma , poorly differentiated. he was then referred tooncology who informed the patient of his diagnosis with hisfamily. the patient decided to undergo chemotherapy with fullfox. he was then placed with the port-a-cath access on8/14/2006 and he received his full fox on 9/24/2006 withoutincident. throughout he was controlled on antiemetics. he wascontinued on his outpatient dose of nexium as before nsaids andaspirin were avoided.heme: the patient had a stable hematocrit on admission. hehowever given his history of gi bleeding , was closely watched andwas transfused for goal hematocrit above 28. he only receivedone unit of packed red blood cells on 2/2/2006 as noted. thepatient received an egd with biopsy of his of his lesion on6/5/2006 .  there was some problem with controlling his bleedingpostbiopsy surgery and interventional radiology were aware ofthis. he was closely monitored for any hematocrit drop.fortunately , his hematocrit remained stable and he did notrequire any acute intervention. he did receive some p.o. vitamink intermittently for his elevated inr of 1.5.musculoskeletal: the patient did complain of his spine pain. hesays this pain however has been chronic throughout the years. hedid have a spinal mri , which did not show any evidence ofmetastatic disease or cord compression. it did reveal only milddegenerative joint disease.cardiovascular: the patient was maintained on his homemedications for his hypertension , coronary artery disease andhistory of mi. there were no acute issues during this hospitalstay.endocrine: for his diabetes , the patient was held off his oralhypoglycemics and put on an insulin sliding scale as well as astanding nph insulin dose. for his hypercholesterolemia , he wascontinued on his home dose of vytorin , which was administered asseparate zetia and zocor.fluids , electrolytes and nutrition: given his poor inability totolerate p.o. , he was given iv fluids on admission. his diet wasadvanced to clears and intermittently he was held n.p.o. forprocedures and for his episode of bleeding status post hisbiopsy. however , he was then successfully advanced on his diet.nutrition was consulted and did leave recs for possible tpnadministration. if the patient should not be able to toleratep.o. in the long run however , he is doing well and tpn will beheld off for now.prophylaxis: the patient is prophylaxed on a ppi on his homedose as well as lovenox. the patient is full code.key features of physical exam at discharge , the patient remainsin stable condition. his physical exam is unchanged.disposition and follow up tests: the patient will be dischargedhome with vna as well as with an infusion pump to administeroutpatient chemotherapy of 5-fu. the patient should follow upwith his primary care provider dr. rydelek and as well as hisoncologist , dr. moyers . he will continue on his chemotherapyprotocol per dr. thamphia . his p.o. intake should be monitored and hepotentially should have an appointment with outpatient nutritionto evaluate whether tpn should be started or not. he shouldcontinue on his antiemetics , his pain control and a bowelregimen.escription document: 9-1667206 hffocusdictated by: blas , jeromyattending: falcioni , teddydictation id 6851059d: 10/5/06t: 5/23/06[report_end]