495854223 | sfh | 30148633 | | 9489074 | 10/20/2002 12:00:00 am | lower gastrointestinal bleed | signed | dis | admission date: 1/15/2002 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/30/2002principle diagnosis: lower gastrointestinal bleed.history of present illness: the patient is a 75-year-old male witha history of coronary artery diseasestatus post five catheterization with a pacemaker in place ,arthritis , gout , benign prostatic hypertrophy , hypertension andmyelodysplasia who presents with a history of lowergastrointestinal bleeds. he has had three episodes in the past.he presented to an outside hospital four days prior to admissionwith symptoms of bright red blood per rectum. his vital signs atthat time were normal and stable with a hematocrit of 33. a taggedred blood cell scan was negative during that hospitalization as wasan upper endoscopy. colonoscopy revealed diverticula throughoutthe large colon with more on the right than on the left. duringthat hospitalization at the outside hospital , he was transfusedwith four units of packed red blood cells and then transferred tothe siter calvty valley hospital for further evaluation andtreatment.hospital course: on admission , his hematocrit was 32.9.subsequent serial hematocrits over the followingtwo days were stable. during the first hospital day , he had twogrossly heme-positive bowel movements and , by the second hospitalday , he had bowel movements that were brown and formed but guaiacpositive still. his hematocrit remained stable between 30 and 35throughout his earlier hospitalization.given the patient's history of multiple gastrointestinal bleeds ,the decision was made to perform a right hemicolectomy to preventfurther episodes. this was performed on hospital day number three.see operative note for details.the procedure and recovery were unremarkable. he was started onsips on postoperative day number one and clear liquids onpostoperative day number two. he tolerated all of this well. hisfoley catheter was removed on postoperative day number two. hisdiet was advanced. on postoperative day number three , he hadpassed flatus. he began to have loose bowel movements. his dietwas advanced and , by postoperative day number four , he wastolerating a regular house diet.on the day of discharge , the patient was stable and toleratingp.o.'s quite well. his pain was well controlled with p.o. painmedication of percocet and he was voiding freely withoutdifficulty. he was ambulating successfully. therefore , it wasdeemed that he was suitable for discharge.the patient was seen by his cardiologist , dr. poette throughout hishospitalization. prior to surgery , he was deemed suitable forsurgery without any serious cardiac risks. on postoperative day#2 , the patient was noted to have a run of v-tach 10 beats ,asymptomatic , no chest pain or discomfort , no shortness of breath.he said that he was coughing at the time that that tracing came up.a ck and troponin were sent which were both flat. the patient hadpreviously been ruled out for mi. postoperatively , as aprophylactic course , given that he has a ventricular pacemaker andwe could not follow ekgs based on that. the patient did wellthereafter , and had no further cardiac symptoms or issues. thepatient was seen by physical therapy throughout his postoperativecourse and prior to discharge was deemed suitable for discharge tohome , was able to do all necessary activities to go home.discharge medications: allopurinol 300 mg p.o. q.d. , atenolol25 mg p.o. q.d. , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.p.r.n. constipation , percocet 1-2 tablets p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain ,zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , flomax 0.8 mg p.o. q.d.he will follow up with dr. weigold , his hematologist , in 2-4 weeks.he will follow up with dr. condiff on 2/5/02. he was stable atthe time of discharge and is discharged to home with services.dictated by: guillermo pickings , m.d. ly99attending: lonny juras , m.d. uw81uw371/974391batch: 01539 index no. ihwx3w29d1 d: 1/9/02t: 1/9/02