record #714039427263098 | wfmc | 31474529 | | 315528 | 1/30/1996 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 9/13/1996 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/25/1996principal diagnosis: severe coronary artery disease , status postpercutaneous transluminal coronaryangioplasty/stent placement times two , leftcircumflex coronary artery.history of present illness: mr. lechman is a 50-year-old malewith a history of coronary arterydisease significant for an 80% mid circumflex , 95% mid right , 70%distal right , 50% distal left anterior descending coronary arterylesions with posterobasilar hypokinesis in the setting of apreserved left ventricular ejection fraction , hypertension timesgreater than 30 years , and an elevated cholesterol who was in hisnormal state of health until the morning of admission. at thattime , he was performing strenuous work in his bakery and began tosuffer from 4/10 chest pain , "heaviness" , and discomfort. the paindid not radiate. he denies dizziness , shortness of breath ,palpitations , and diaphoresis. the patient took one sublingualnitroglycerin and sat down with resolution of pain in approximatelyfive minutes. the patient then returned to work. several hourslater , while again performing strenuous work , the patient suffereda similar episode of chest pain and heaviness which he rates as a2/10. the patient sat down and , this time , the pain resolvedwithout sublingual nitroglycerin in approximately three minutes.the patient was disconcerted by these multiple events and went tothe skaggsmiddrish hospital emergency room for further work up. whilesitting comfortably in the emergency room at nantsi memorial hospital , thepatient suffered a similar event of chest pain and tightness , whichhe reports to be approximately 1.5/10. he took one sublingualnitroglycerin with resolution of his symptoms in approximately fiveminutes. the patient was transferred to slandchor hospital medical center at that point. one hour later , in sa hospital emergency room , the patient suffered a similar episode ofchest pain and tightness , this time rated at 1/10 , with resolutionof pain in approximately one minute , not requiring sublingualnitroglycerin. the patient reported , at that time , that his lifehad been very stressful , and that he had been working very hard inhis bakery. review of symptoms is consistent with above and ,otherwise , noncontributory.past medical history: 1. coronary artery disease diagnosed in 1994with catheterization performed in may1994. there was 80% mid circumflex , 70% distal , 95% mid right , 50%distal left anterior descending occlusions. posterobasilarhypokinesia with preserved left ventricular ejection fraction. 2.hypertension times greater than 30 years. 3. hypercholesterolemia.4. hepatitis in 1991 , believed to be of a viral type with completeresolution of symptoms and no sequela. 5. an exercise tolerancetest in february 1996 that showed 2 mm st segment depression in theinferior and lateral leads. the exercise tolerance test proceededwithout chest pain.past surgical history: appendectomy in the distant past.admission medications: 1. spironolactone 25 mg p.o. q.a.m. 2.simvastatin 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. 3. atenolol100 mg p.o. q.day. 4. diltiazem 60 mg p.o. t.i.d. 5. entericcoated aspirin 325 mg q.day.allergies: shellfish causes a rash.family history: mother had hypertension , grandmother with coronaryartery disease. there is no history of diabetesmellitus or cancer.social history: the patient denies current tobacco use. hereports a 40 pack year history , quitting fiveyears ago. the patient denies alcohol use. the patient lives athome with wife. they have no children. the patient reports thathe is now on a low cholesterol diet , has lost 100 lb over the lasttwo years , and was successfully walking four to five miles a daywithout chest pain or other symptoms until the day prior toadmission.physical examination: the patient was afebrile. his bloodpressure was 132/84 , heart rate 62 , and aroom air saturation of 96%. generally , mr. mcalister was analert , well appearing man in no apparent distress. he was eager toanswer our questions. head , eyes , ears , nose , and throatexamination was significant only for exanthema under the right eye.the patient's neck was supple with full range of motion and nolymphadenopathy. there were bilateral carotid bruits. carotidpulses were 2+. the patient had jugular venous distention of 6 cmwith the head of the bed elevated at 15 degrees. lungs were clearto auscultation bilaterally. heart examination was significant fornormal s1 and s2 , and a ii/vi systolic ejection murmur that washeard best at the lower left sternal border , although it wasaudible at the right sternal border , left mid axillary line , andappeared to radiate to the carotids. the abdominal examination wasbenign. the patient's extremities were clear of cyanosis ,clubbing , or edema. the patient had 2+ symmetrical pulsesthroughout. the patient was guaiac negative by report was normaltone. neurologic examination was nonfocal and significant for thepatient being alert and oriented times three , with a motorexamination showing 5/5 strength throughout. sensory examinationwas intact to light touch. cranial nerves ii-xii were intact. thepatient had deep tendon reflexes that were 2+ throughout.laboratory data: the patient was found to have normalelectrolytes. white count was 6.3 and hematocrit41.2. cpk obtained at storgwi hospital was 148 and serialcpks obtained at scc side medical center were 81 , 114 ,115 , respectively. no mb fraction was done. at ins medical center , the patient had an ekg taken that was significant fornormal sinus rhythm at 62 beats per minute with intervals of169/93/402 with no q waves , no st changes. this was consistentwith an ekg from july , 1996. an ekg obtained at han rutl medical center showed normal sinus rhythm at 64 beats per minutewith intervals of 172/100/412 with one pvc captured. however ,there were no q waves and no st changes.hospital course: the patient was begun on heparin 1 , 000 units perhour iv after an initial 5 , 000 units iv bolus.the patient consistently maintained a ptt in the range of 60-80seconds. the patient underwent a catheterization the day followingadmission which demonstrated 80% occlusion of the ramus branch ,100% occlusion of the left obtuse marginal branch number one , and a100% occlusion of the patient's right coronary artery. it wasdecided that the patient would be a candidate for both conventionalptca to attempt to repair the left circumflex coronary artery.however , the patient's severe coronary artery disease lead theinterventional radiologists to consider the patient for a laserwire type of ptca in the event that ptca was not successful. asthe laser wire ptca was not available for several days , it wasdecided to have mr. lienhard remain as an inpatient on heparin tomaintain a ptt of 60-80 while awaiting the laser wire guided ptca.three days following admission , while awaiting ptca , the patienthad one episode of chest pain that he reports resolved in less thanthree minutes with one sublingual nitroglycerin tablet. thepatient denied shortness of breath , palpitations , or diaphoresis.since that time , the patient remained totally stable with nofurther events of chest pain and no ekg changes noted. the patientwas begun on 250 mg of ticlid b.i.d. two days prior to hiscatheterization procedure.on march , 1996 , five days after admission , the patientsuccessfully underwent ptca of his left circumflex artery which hadpreviously had a 100% stenosis. the patient had two stents placedin the left circumflex artery , leaving a 0% residual lesion. thepatient tolerated the procedure well , returned to the floor. thecatheterization sheaths were removed six hours after the procedure.examination the following morning revealed no further bleeding , nohematoma , and good pulses distally , as well as a warm and dry leftlower extremity. as the patient tolerated the procedure well andhad no further complications , it was decided that the patient couldbe discharged the day following his catheterization , maintained on250 mg of ticlid b.i.d.discharge medications: ticlid 250 mg p.o. b.i.d. , spironolactone25 mg p.o. q.a.m. , simvastatin 20 mg p.o.q.h.s. , atenolol 75 mg p.o. q.day , diltiazem 60 mg p.o. t.i.d. , andenteric coated aspirin 325 mg q.day.discharge condition: mr. ruesswick will be discharged in stablecondition following his ptca from the daybefore. the patient will be discharged to home.follow-up: the patient will follow up with dr. wilburn ducceschi ,his outside hospital cardiologist , in one to two weeks.we suspect that mr. danco will be able to return to his normalactivities of daily living without any further disability.dictated by: beau kamnaattending: ahmed j. brookes , m.d. nk8  jr861/7495batch: 82051 index no. h4qgcr39dn d: 10/20/96t: 0/20/96cc: 1. rene d. nell , m.d. mt32. marty j. fipps , m.d. mn76[report_end]