record #807144126752896 | cmc | 82174258 | | 488053 | 6/20/1995 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 9/1/1995 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/0/1995principal diagnosis: acute cerebrovascular accident.secondary diagnosis: 1. adult onset diabetes mellitus.2. focal motor seizure disorder.3. cardiomyopathy.4. congestive heart failure.5. asthma.6. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.7. gout.8. idiopathic eosinophilia.9. chronic venostasis , status postdeep venous thrombosis.10. recurrent cellulitis.history of present illness: this is a 53 year old , white malewith insulin dependent , adult onsetdiabetes mellitus , past alcohol abuse , cardiomyopathy , congestiveheart failure , and seizure disorder , who has been relativelydisabled due to shortness of breath , since 1992. the patient wasat home on the day of admission when he noted difficulty lighting acigarette with his right hand , as well as keeping it in his mouth.the patient had difficulty speaking and his arm becameprogressively weaker over the next several hours. the patient wasable to eat and drink with some difficulty. he noted word findingdifficulty , dysarthria , and arm weakness. the patient deniedheadache , visual problems , loss of sensation , loss ofconsciousness , urinary symptoms , diplopia , vertigo , nausea ,vomiting , or difficulty ambulating. the patient was brought to theemergency room by his son when his symptoms continued to worsen.past medical history: past medical history is significant foralcoholism , cardiomyopathy , congestive heartfailure , coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction ,insulin dependent diabetes mellitus complicated by focal motorseizures with hyperglycemia , deep venous thrombosis , venostasisulcers , cellulitis , diabetic retinopathy , idiopathic eosinophilia ,asthma , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , gout ,hepatosplenomegaly , and ascites.medications on admission: medications on admission includehydroxyurea 500 mg p.o. q.a.m. ,colchicine 0.6 mg p.o. b.i.d. , lisinopril 10 mg p.o. q day , insulinnph 30 units q.a.m. and 20 units q.p.m. , indocin 25 mg p.o. t.i.d.p.r.n. gout , and lasix 80 mg p.o. q day.allergies: the patient has an allergy to penicillin.social history: his social history is notable for occasionalalcohol use. of note , his last use of alcohol wasone week prior to admission. the patient had previously usedalcohol quite seriously , with one case of beer q day times 33years , quitting heavy alcohol use after his myocardial infarction.the patient smokes tobacco one pack per day. he used cocaine forthree years but quit cocaine use three years prior to admission.review of systems: review of systems is notable for very poorexercise tolerance with a one block maximumlimit. the patient stops due to shortness of breath andclaudication. he also has two pillow orthopnea.physical examination: this is a pleasant , obese , middle aged ,53 year old , white male with a right facialdroop and in no acute distress. temperature is 97 , pulse 84 , bloodpressure 126/70 , and o2 saturation is 99 percent on room air. hisheent examination was notable for no nystagmus and no diplopia.his tongue was deviated to the right. his neck was supple with afull range of motion. he had no bruits or lymphadenopathy. hiscardiac examination revealed tachycardia , regular rate and rhythm ,s1 and s2 , and a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur heard loudest at theaxilla. his lung examination showed fine crackles at the left basewith diffuse wheezes. his abdomen was obese , soft , distended , andnon-tender. he had normoactive bowel sounds and liver span of 15cm. his extremity examination was notable for chronic venostasischanges , right greater than left , with 1+ peripheral pulses. hisneurological examination was notable for his being alert andoriented times three. his ability to name was intact but he hadword finding difficulty. he had no right and left confusion. hehad downward droop of his right nasolabial fold , as well as a rightoral droop and a central seventh deficit. his tongue showed rightdeviation. his sensory ability was intact overall. he haddecreased motor tone in his right upper extremity with 4/5 strengthin his right arm. his right arm lacked coordination and he haddifficulty initiating movement with his right arm but his strengthwas still 4/5. his left upper extremity was 5/5 strength with goodcoordination. his lower extremities were both 5/5.laboratory data: sodium was 140 , potassium 4.8 , chloride 104 ,bicarbonate 19 , bun 44 , creatinine 1.6 , andglucose was 164. white count was 11 , 000 , hematocrit 43.3 , andplatelet count was 163 , 000. pt was 14.1 , inr 1.4 , ptt 29.1.urinalysis showed 20 to 25 hyaline casts with 3-5 red blood cells.there were no white blood cells.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the medical servicewith a presumptive diagnosis of a left sidedstroke. a head ct was performed on hospital day number one but wasnegative with no evidence of cerebral infarct or bleeding.however , a follow up head ct on hospital day number threedemonstrated acute infarct in the left insular capsule and leftcorona radiata. a carotid ultrasound was obtained on hospital daynumber five which demonstrated bilateral carotid plaques with lessthan 50 percent stenosis of both carotid arteries. because of thepatient's history of diabetes and his cardiac history , especiallygiven his prior myocardial infarction , the patient was placed on aromi protocol. the patient ruled out for a myocardial infarctionand he was given a cardiac echocardiogram on hospital day numbertwo. the echocardiogram demonstrated increased left ventricularsize with preserved systolic function and an ejection fraction of65 percent. he had dilated left and right atria and he hadthickened mitral valve leaflets with 4+ mitral regurgitation , withflow reversible into his pulmonary veins. he also had 3 to 4+tricuspid regurgitation with slow reversal into the vena cava. hehad a trileaflet aortic valve with mild sclerosis but noinsufficiency or stenosis. he also had increased right heart sizewith right heart pressures of 55 to 60 mm of mercury. he was notedto have a trivial pericardial effusion. of note , there was noevidence of any thrombus in the heart. however , because of thenature of his stroke , which was felt to be embolic by neurology , aswell as his enlarged atria. the patient was placed on iv heparinand he was then started on oral coumadin for long-termanticoagulation. the patient did very well after his stroke andhis original slurred speech improved markedly over the course ofhis admission. he also regained full strength in his right arm ,although he continued to have some decreased coordination in thatarm. the patient also demonstrated inability to swallow withoutdifficulty and an esophagogram with video analysis was performed onhospital day number six , prior to his discharge. the video studyof his swallowing demonstrated that he had essentially normalswallowing and he was cleared to go home on a regular diet. ofnote , his blood pressure tended to be low , around 100 to 110systolic , while in the hospital , so his lisinopril was discontinuedand he was given instructions that lisinopril would be restarted byhis cmc attending after his discharge. his hydroxyurea wasincreased from 500 mg to 1 gram q day. the patient did quite wellafter his stroke and he was discharged home with services onmay , 1995.medications on discharge: his discharge medications werecolchicine 0.6 mg p.o. t.i.d. , lasix 40mg p.o. q day , insulin nph 30 units subcutaneous q.a.m. and 20units subcutaneous q.p.m. , atrovent inhaler two puffs q.i.d. p.r.n.wheezing , multivitamins one capsule p.o. q day , coumadin 4 mg p.o.q.h.s. , and indocin 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. gout pain.disposition: diet: the patient is on an ada 1800 calorie diet.activity: he has no activity restrictions.dictated by: demarcus nack , m.d. py10attending: alfredo l. schwarze , m.d. gz0  yr035/4013batch: 11412 index no. a1xmz98dvn d: 11/11/95t: 6/27/95[report_end]