record date: 2100-07-07humalog 0-2/4-8/6-10	111-64-17lantus 10 u hs	xayarath, nancyprograf 2 mg bidimuran 100 mg qhsprednisone 2.5 mg qd starting last weekomeprazole 20 mg qdlipitor 40 mg qdtoprol xl 25 mg qpmimdur 30 mg qdcoumadin 4 mg tablets (for svc stent): 4 mg 2/7; 6 mg 5/7asa 325 mg qdcaltrate with d 1200-1500 mg per day in divided dosesfosamax 70 mg qwcentrum qdfolate 1 mg qd   not takingcelexa 20 mg qdjuly 07, 2100interim history:	comes to review her medical problems.she had been losing weight and feeling fatigued. she has been at her current weight for several weeks and feels that she has stabilized. appetite has been good. home blood tests:  no records. she reports that she drops from the 200's to the normal range in the morning. her bedtime test is about 3-4 hours after summer.  retinopathy:	saw dr. xiques in the spring. may need laser for p-cataract film. retinas stable.nephropathy:	cr 1.0 in september. saw dr. caldwell re her charcot foot. he put her in a boot and wheelchair for 3 weeks and it resolved well. cardiac:	gets little tingling sensations in her anterior chest, occurring at any times. not specifically at times of physical exercise. vascular:	no claudicationpast medical history: medications: prograf reduced.review of systems: gi: feels that her abdomen is uncomfortable much of the time. not precipitated or relieved by food. upper and lower abdominal. no change in volume or nature of ileostomy output. she has dysphagia for liquids, sometimes with regurgitation. had pap and mammogram through anc gynecologist.she saw dr. wilhelm for sinus problems. he got an mri. it showed a meningioma of the jugular foramen. dr. wilhelm's note indicated that she would see dr. new for that and indeed she has seen dr. new, although she says it is for a tumor on the vocal cord. he also wanted her to see dr. carter about a vocal cord paralysis, and that visit is upcoming. physical exam:	looks well.bp:   118/70		p:   72, regularwt:   118.5 without shoes, down 8.5heent:	anicteric. carotids:	normal pulses, without bruitschest:	clear to auscultationheart:	dyskinetic prominent apical impulse. normal s1; single s2.  s4.  2/6 systolic ejection murmurabdomen:	no hepatosplenomegaly. no masses. small epigastric hernia with mild tenderness in that area. ileostomy. no palpable aaa. extremities:	no edema.       dp 2+,=.  pt absent. prominent mound of tissue in the plantar aspect of l foot, from charcot changes, but with very normal skin covering.  good foot care.impressions and plan:	many active issues.hard to assess control without data. must bring them to visits.for now, reduce the lantus to 8 u since she drops overnight by history.will need to talk with dr. wilhelm and dr. new about their respective perspectives and figure out who is addressing the meningioma and hydrocephalus. may need to see a neurologist. refer to dr. sanders for evaluation of her gastrointestinal discomfort and dysphagia for liquids. i suspect a motility disorder.she needs follow-up with dr. arndt. 1 hour; most counseling and coordination of care.a1c, electrolytes, bun/creatinine, cbc, anti-gliadin antibodies, anti-transglutaminase antibodies, tsh.appointments:	1 monthcc:	transplant clinic	fredrich van butler, m.d.	nicole arndt, m.d.	lawrence wilhelm, m.d., minnie hamilton health care center, 727 seneca drive, suite 9b,		 red springs, wa 77286	nicholas new, m.d., bkmc	ophelia sanders, m.d.			lawrence k. townsend, m.d., ph.d.