record #992839753215669 | krch | 33656807 | | 3752166 | 9/2/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 4/21/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/29/2005attending: maccarone , herb m.d.service: general medical service , naadmit diagnosis: congestive heart failure.discharge diagnoses: congestive heart failure , aortic valve andmitral valve dysfunction.chief complaint: shortness of breath.history of present illness: this is 59-year-old female who isstatus post mitral valve repair , aortic valve repair , history ofendocarditis , history of rheumatic heart disease , hypertension ,diabetes mellitus , and congestive heart failure who presents withincreasing shortness of breath , nausea , vomiting , and abdominalpain. she has been under significant stress at home since lastsummer and notes slowly declining health since that time. shehas had increasing shortness of breath as well as dyspnea onexertion since july 2004 and has gotten worse in the past onemonth , and even significantly worse in the past week. thepatient notes increasing lower extremity edema on the right sidegreater than the left. she states that this is her baseline withthe right side being more than the left. she has no increase inher abdominal girth , the patient has two-to three-pilloworthopnea ( from one-pillow orthopnea , one month ago ) , she doeshave some paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , she has no increasednocturia. the patient notes that the shortness of breath is "notangina; i do not have that." she does not have anylightheadedness , diaphoresis , or radiation of pain. the patientsays that she does not check her weigh at home , but "knows" sheis in failure when she is short of breath. she also notesnausea , vomiting , and some abdominal pain stating that it startedabout a week and a half ago. she had gone to see the ed on thesunday prior to admission where the patient reportedly had abenign exam , low-grade temperature , given recent levaquin for anupper respiratory tract infection , she was then started on flagylfor a possible c. difficile infection. the patient's diarrheastopped , but she had still remained some abdominal pain andincreased cough , which was nonproductive. she went to her pcp onthe day of admission for increasing shortness of breath and wassent to the ed for diuresis. in the ed , she was given 60 mg ofiv lasix with good output per report. she did have some decreasein her shortness of breath shortly thereafter. she alsocomplained of 10/10 abdominal pain and was given some dilaudid.on the floor during the interview , she did have some projectilevomiting. she was able to pass gas. she reported no fevers ,chills , or night sweats. she reported no bright red blood perrectum. she reported no change in her bowel , bladder , or urinaryhabits.past medical history:1. rheumatic heart disease , status post mitral valve repair andaortic valve repair. in 1981 , she had porcine mitral valverepair. in 1991 , she had st. jude valve , mitral valve , and avr.2. endocarditis in 1991 and porcine mitral valve.3. diabetes mellitus.4. hypertension.5. status post ankle fracture and subsequent orif in 2001.6. status post ventral hernia repair.7. status post laparoscopic cholecystectomy.8. status post breast biopsy.9. congestive heart failure.10. atrial fibrillation.11. tia.allergies: no known drug allergies. dove soap does give herhives.medications:1. lasix 40 mg p.o. q.o.d. alternating with 80 mg p.o. lasixq.o.d.2. digoxin 0.125 mg q.o.d. alternating with 0.25 q.o.d.3. lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d.4. coumadin 6 mg p.o. q.o.d. , alternating with 4 mg q.o.d.5. omeprazole 20 mg b.i.d.6. metformin 500 mg daily.7. insulin 70/30 65 units q.a.m. , 35 units q.p.m.8. calcium 600 mg p.o. b.i.d.9. magnesium 400 mg p.o. b.i.d.10. multivitamin.11. iron tablets.12. actonel every wednesday.social history: the patient quit smoking in 2001. her maximumwas three to four packs per day for 35 years. as far as heralcohol history , she drinks occasional alcohol. she does nottake any illicit drugs. she used to work as a hairdresser. shehas had increased stress at home secondary to a son who hasschizophrenia and another son who abuses drugs and has violenttendencies.family history: noncontributory.physical examination on admission: vital signs are remarkablefor temperature of 98.7 , pulse 60 , blood pressure 111/61 ,respiratory rate 30 , o2 saturation 96% on room air. these werevitals when the patient arrived to the floor. general: she isalert and oriented x3. she is anxious , but pleasant in nature.heent: her left eye is artificial. her right eye isapproximately 3 mm. she has moist mucous membrane. she has asmall erosion on the right upper gum. there is no erythema orexudate seen within the tonsils. neck: jvp noted to beapproximately 6 cm. her neck is supple. there was full range ofmotion. there are no carotid bruits and there is nolymphadenopathy present. cardiovascular: heart is of regularrate and rhythm with occasional premature beats. she has a s1and s2 that are mechanical in nature. she has a 3/6 holosystolicmurmur heard at the apex. there are no rubs or gallopsappreciated. she additionally has a right rv heave. her pmi isdiffuse , but nondisplaced. chest: faint crackles at the leftbase , otherwise clear. no wheezes or rhonchi are heard.abdomen: slightly tympanic. her right lower quadrant isslightly tender. she has active bowel sounds. her liver edge isnot palpable. the spleen tip is nonpalpable. extremities:warm , 1+ dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally. she does have some1+ lower extremity edema on the right greater than the left. itis slightly pitting.laboratory exam on admission: sodium 126 , potassium 4.4 ,chloride 93 , bicarbonate 24 , bun 28 , creatinine 1.4 with abaseline of 1.2 and 1.3 , glucose 160. cbc is notable for a whiteblood cell count of 9.9 , hematocrit 27.9 , platelet count 274 , 000.her liver function tests are notable for alt 56 , ast 83 ,alkaline phosphatase is 52 , total bilirubin 0.1 , albumin 4.2 , andtotal protein 7.4.studies: her ekg showed no change. it was in junctional rhythmat 65 beats per minute. she had frequent pvcs. there was anormal access. there were some nonspecific t-wave inversions.chest x-ray: showed mild vascular congestion. there was noevidence of any effusion.impression: this is a 59-year-old female with a rheumatic heartdisease , status post st. jude's mvr and avr , congestive heartfailure who presents with mild volume overload and abdominal painwith nausea and vomiting.brief hospital course by systems:1. cardiovascular:a. ischemia: when the patient was admitted , she was ruled outfor an mi. she did have a slight increase of her troponins ,which were attributed to mild demand ischemia. in addition , shehad some slight anemia , which could also be contributed to thedemand as well in addition to the clear volume overload. she didfine from the standpoint , had no st changes on any of her ekgs.the patient laid her head workup for future avr and mvr with thesurgical service , with dr. bio . her workup was extensive andincluded a cardiac catheterization , which showed no significantcoronary artery disease. the hemodynamics were notable for thefollowing: ra of 12 , pa of 92/23/44 , pulmonary capillary wedgepressure of 22 with v waves to 42. the mitral valve was grosslynormal with appropriate leaflet motion. the av was also grossly.the overall conclusion was elevated right-sided heart pressures.she had no evidence of major atherosclerotic disease of thecoronary arteries.b. pump: please see cath report as above. the patient wasadmitted and diuresed with iv lasix , so she came down to aeuvolemic state. her diuresis was continued with 80 mg iv lasixon a b.i.d. basis. she was diuresed until there was a subsequentbump in her creatinine to 1.8 , 1.9. after that point , diuresiswas slowly modified. she was then placed back on a regimen of120 mg of p.o. lasix q.o.d. that is the dosing of lasix on whichshe is discharged.c. rhythm: the patient has a history of paroxysmal atrialfibrillation that has been rate controlled with a beta-blocker.on admission , her digoxin was stopped. she was evaluated by theep service. they recommended epicardial lead placement atsurgery due to her tachybrady syndrome. the patient wasdischarged on diltiazem 30 mg q.i.d. she will have hermedications modified status post her valvular repair in the verynear future.d. presurgical workup: in addition to echo , right and leftheart cath , the patient had a tee performed. tee showed normalleft atrial appendage without evidence of localized thrombus.st. jude's valve was well seated in the aortic position. therewas no significant aortic regurg that was noted. a st. jude'svalve was well seated in the mitral position as well. there wastrace mild regurgitation noted. there was slight asynchronousmotion of the prosthetic valve apparatus that was noted. thetricuspid valve was normal in appearance. there was mildregurgitation present. visualized portion of the thoracic aortarevealed minimal atheromatous plaque.2. pulmonary: the patient remained stable from her pulmonarystandpoint. she continued to sat well on room air. she did notrequired any nebulizers during her stay.3. gi: the patient was initially admitted with some abdominalpain and also nausea and vomiting. she had a kub performed for aquestion of potential bowel obstruction. a single frontal viewof the abdomen was obtained and is reported in the finalradiology report. there was gas seen within the loops of smallbowel as well as the colon. there is no bowel dilatation seen.the overall impression was no evidence of any high-grade bowelobstruction. it is likely that some of her pain was secondary tohepatic congestion. the nausea and vomiting eventually resolvedand perhaps this is some type of viral illness orgastroenteritis. she did have some episode of diarrhea prior toadmission along with some abdominal cramping. the patient wascontinued on her ppi for gerd prophylaxis. at one point , sherequired increasing her dosage of nexium secondary to gerd-likesymptoms. it seemed that increasing the amount of nexium shereceived , precipitated some diarrhea. she was returned to anormal dosing of nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d. while in-house. she wasdischarged on omeprazole 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. , which she willcontinue to take as an outpatient. in addition , she was givenprescription for colace and also senokot today. she shouldcontinue using.4. heme: her hematocrit remained relatively stable during herstay with averaging of 26 to 27 as far as her hematocrit. wewere not concerned with keeping her hematocrit 30 or above at alltimes given her clean coronary arteries seen from the left andalso right heart catheterization. she did have a slight dip inher hematocrit at one point requiring two units of packed redblood cells. her hematocrit bumped appropriately to 30 or 31.she required no subsequent transfusions thereafter. with regardto anticoagulation , she was placed on the heparin drip at 950units per hour to maintain a ptt between 60 and 80 secondary toher mechanical valves that are in place. on discharge , thepatient was transitioned to lovenox 60 mg b.i.d. with a renaldosing. she will continue to take this lovenox as an outpatientand stop it one to two days prior to her surgery as instructed.she has home vna in place.5. renal: her bun and creatinine was relatively stable onadmission. it did elevate to as high as 3.3 , 3.4 on heradmission secondary to her ongoing diuresis. when diuresis washeld for several days given her markedly increased urine outputand as she became more hydrated and euvolemic , her creatininereturned to its baseline of 1.2 , 1.3. she has no active issuesnow.6. endocrine: we appreciated the diabetes service for followingher very closely while in-house. several modifications were madeto her regimen while here to get good control of her bloodglucose. she was maintained on a stable regimen of nph 60 unitsin the morning , nph 30 units in the evening. she also was placedon a sliding scale. she also received novolog of 15 units in themorning with breakfast and also 15 at dinner. she was notreceiving any of the novolog while at lunch. she will continueto take this regimen in home. all of her prescriptions wereprovided by carl mcclenahan , who is following with the diabetesservice. they will become again involved with her care as sheplans for surgery in the very near future.7. infectious disease: the patient was stable from an idstandpoint during her entire admission. on july , 2005 , thepatient was noted to have an increase in her white blood cellcount upwards towards the 20 , 000. this was one day prior to aplanned surgery on may , 2005 with dr. villata to repair heraortic valve and also her mitral valve. the surgery was delayedas a result of this , so an infectious workup could ensue. shehad a urine sent that showed , the suggestion of a urinary tractinfection. levaquin was given for treatment of her uti.surveillance cultures were drawn daily. given the fact that shehad a right groin hematoma that performed after the heartcatheterization we questioned whether or not this could be sometype of infectious source. she had the hematoma aspirated , itwas negative for any organisms. she had no other identifiedplaces as far as source of infection. it was believed that shecould potential have endocarditis as she has had in the past.one of her cultures actually grew out a species of abiotrophia.there is only one culture positive , that was taken on february . she has had no subsequent cultures growing out at the time ofthis dictation. we appreciate the infectious disease teamfollowing. their recommendations were to hold antibiotics unlesssubsequent cultures began to grow out. their recommendationswere to continue to follow all cultures and to perform a tee. arepeat tee was performed and showed no evidence of any lesions orchange in bowel function. there were clearly no vegetation seenon either any transthoracic echos or tees. id maderecommendations as far as perioperative antibiotics , which wouldinclude two weeks of ceftriaxone 1 g iv b.i.d. under theassumption that this would be completing a course of her therapyafter sbe. they would also recommend sending all valve tissuefor gram stain and culture as well as pathology. if the gramstain and culture were positive , they would suggest extending thecourse of the above-mentioned antibiotic therapy.8. neurologic: the patient was given darvon and also codeine asneeded for her pain. she complained of right groin painsecondary to the hematoma. her pain is much improved that she isable to ambulate easily around the tl brown vo on discharge. thehematoma is resolving and her pain is resolving as well.9. fluids , electrolytes , and nutrition: the patient istolerating p.o. well. her electrolytes were repleted as neededdaily.10. psychologic: the patient was seen by social work. it isclear that she has many anxieties about the surgery and also ingoing home and returning to her social environment. shenecessitated volume prior to many procedures given her severeanxiety.11. disposition: the patient is stable from a medicalstandpoint with all cultures clear and no evidence of activeinfection. her white blood cell count is now normal. she is nowawaiting surgical repair of her valve and will have a surgeryscheduled with dr. berreth office in the next one to two weeks.discharge medications:1. diltiazem 30 mg p.o. q.6h.2. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.3. lasix 120 mg p.o. q. other day.4. nph 60 units in the morning.5. nph 30 units in the evening.6. lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q. day.7. senokot three tablets p.o. b.i.d.8. multivitamin one tablet p.o. q.d.9. lovenox 60 mg subcutaneously b.i.d.10. caltrate plus vitamin d 600 mg one tablet p.o. b.i.d.11. novolog sliding scale q.a.c. and h.s.12. novolog 15 units subcutaneously with breakfast and dinnerdid not give at lunch.13. maalox tablets quick dissolve.14. codeine 15 mg to 30 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain.15. magnesium oxide 400 mg p.o. b.i.d.16. omeprazole 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.17. niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.follow-up plans:1. the patient was given instructions to call dr. mccutchanoffice to coordinate her appointment for her valve repair in thenext one to two weeks pending her surgeon's return.2. the patient instructed to call dr. doug schlanger on march ,2005 , to discuss surgical plans and also to follow up.3. the patient should have all her blood cultures followed upprior to her surgery. if any of her blood cultures becomepositive in the interim , we will begin a long course ofantibiotic therapy and delay surgery at the discussion of thecardiovascular service.discharge condition: stable.escription document: 6-8225657 isdictated by: curless , oliverattending: herd , andreasdictation id 3110866d: 4/7/05t: 6/13/05[report_end]