812386341 | tgh | 66886719 | | 9853916 | 2/17/2005 12:00:00 am | grand positive bacteremia | signed | dis | admission date: 2/23/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/22/2005attending: navas , robt mddisposition: short-term rehab.discharge diagnosis: mssa bacteremia.history of present illness: this is an 87-year-old man with ahistory of bioprosthetic aortic valve , status post ppm and icdplacement , who is transferred from ties the whiash county hospital for workupof bacteremia and concern for sepsis and endocarditis with earlyevidence of multiorgan failure. he is 13 years' status postbioprosthetic aortic valve replacement and also has a history ofafib with diastolic heart failure and a permanent pacemaker , oncoumadin therapy. ten days prior to admission to the josesanderstlake medical ,he had extraction of all his remaining teeth. following that , hehad a gradual onset of malaise , shortness of breath , and generalweakness. he was admitted to sonbyrd lanor community hospital following afall to the ground where he was found to be febrile withleukocytosis and there was a question of left lower lobeinfiltrate. blood cultures at kimau hospital of quickly returned positivewith staphylococcus aureus. pe was performed , which was negativefor vegetation , but the patient's oxygen requirement increasedand his blood pressure seemed to be dropping , and thus he wastransferred to lo memorial hospital for further workup and management.past medical history: afib , hypertension , diastolic dysfunction ,echo in 1999 with moderate concentric lvh and ef of 65% , rightheart catheterization in 2000 showed elevated right heart fillingpressures and wedge pressure which increased with exercise ,cardiac output of 4.4 , status post 27-mm bioprosthetic avr andascending two grafts in 1992 , afib with diastolic heart failure ,left bundle-branch block , permanent pacemaker , hypothyroidism ,type ii diabetes , obesity , distant cholecystectomy , aaa , statuspost repair ( ? ) , thrombocytopenia , gout , prostate cancer , statuspost hormone therapy , and diabetes mellitus.medications: medications on admission were lisinopril 5 q.o.d. ,allopurinol 100 b.i.d. , glyburide 6.25 q. day , levothyroxine 100 ,zoloft 50 , protonix 40 , lasix 60 , and coumadin 2.5.allergies: no known drug allergies.social history: the patient lives with his daughter who is verysupportive and his wife in ver he is retired. nohistory of tobacco or alcohol.physical examination: on exam , the patient appeared ill. he wasslightly lethargic. slightly uncomfortable. his oxygen was 96%on 4 l of oxygen. heart rate 70s. blood pressure in the low80s. temperature 99.1. heent: notable for slightly elevatedjvp. his lungs showed decreased breath sounds at the left andright base with rales up to one-third on the right side. his pmiwas nondisplaced. he was in an irregular s1 , normal s2 with norubs or gallops. there was a 1/6 systolic murmur at the base.jvp was approximately 15 cm. pulses were 2+ and equalbilaterally. no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema. he was orientedto person , time , and generally to place , but not to date. hisremainder of neurological exam was grossly intact.labs on admission: notable for a potassium of 4.3 , bun 36 ,creatinine 2.5 , white count 8.1 , hematocrit 39.4 , ck andtroponins were negative , and inr 2.0. chest x-ray on admissionshowed a question of a left lower lobe infiltrate by report. italso revealed a left pleural effusion with a question ofinfiltrate and a right pleural effusion. ekg showed afib , leftaxis deviation , and left bundle-branch block. echo done at thebedside shows an ef of approximately 45% to 50% without grossregional wall motion abnormalities with some paradoxical motionconsistent with left bundle-branch block. there is no obviousvegetation , but this was a limited study.hospital course and plan per system:shortly after admission to the cardiology team , the patientcontinued to have borderline blood pressures. his blood culturesagain grew out mssa and his oxygen requirement increased and hewas transferred to the ccu for central monitoring and furthersupportive care. in the ccu , he was continued on antibiotics.initially , the patient was on vancomycin for concern for mrsa.when his cultures came back , he was switched over initially toancef and gentamicin and then on consultation with id tonafcillin. the patient briefly required pressors , but then afterreceiving iv fluids and continued antibiotics , his blood pressurenormalized to approximately 90 to 100.remainder of hospital course by system:1. id: the patient had repeated gram-positive bacteremia withmssa up until the january , 2005 , after which time his dailycultures have shown no growth to date. as above , the patientwill be maintained on nafcillin , gentamicin was discontinued , andthe patient was started in rifampin on 5/24/05 , both antibioticswhich he should continue for at least 4 to 6 weeks. daily bloodcultures do not need to be resumed unless the patient has atemperature at which point he should be cultured. he has beenafebrile for the last 3 to 4 days prior to discharge. we did notdo a tee as the patient is likely not a surgical candidate and hewas felt to be at very high risk of intubation , should he becomeseptic again or spike temperatures this would be reconsidered.in the interim , the patient should continue with antibiotics andfollow up with id clinic in approximately 3 to 4 weeks.2. cardiac:ischemia: the patient had a very small troponin leak of 0.15 onmarch , 2005 , otherwise his troponins were negative. this waslikely demand ischemia in the setting of sepsis. after thepatient's blood pressure improved , we started him on a low-dosebeta-blocker , which he should continue. we held his ace as hisblood pressure was generally about 90 to 100. if his bloodpressure improves slightly , we would recommend restarting the aceas an outpatient.pump: the patient has a history of diastolic heart failure andan ef of 40%. he was slightly fluid overloaded after transferback from the ccu in the setting of getting fluids for sepsis.he was diuresed intermittently very gently with iv lasix at 20 ,which seemed to improve the patient's shortness of breath andwheezing , which correlated with the patient being more wet. hewas restarted on his own lasix of 60 , for which he shouldcontinue and also recommend having the patient receive dailyweight checks and to adjust lasix in order to maintain dailyweight.rhythm: the patient is afib with left bundle-branch blockoccasionally and rvr at ening health , which seemed tocorrelate with fevers. but , he had a normal rate while inhouseespecially while on beta-blocker. he has an aicd , which seemedto be working fine inhouse as well as a pacemaker.2. pulmonary: the patient has maintained on 2 to 3 liters atwhich he is saturating at 93% to a 100%. he will likely needoxygen for a few more days as some of his remaining fluid istaken off. please check oxygen saturations daily and titrate offoxygen as he is able to.3. renal: the patient is with chronic renal insufficiency ,baseline of 1.7. his range in the hospital was 1.7 to 2.5.pheno was checked which was approximate 33% and he did not haveany urine eos or caths to suggest allergic interstitial nephritisor atn. please repeat a creatinine in one week to ensure that itremains stable. i suspect that as some of his fluid is takenoff , his flow will be better and his creatinine will be slightlyimproved.4. endo: the patient is with diabetes. he was initially onportland protocol while in the intensive care unit. on thefloor , he was maintained on nph and a regular insulin slidingscale. he should continue on nph and this should be titrated inorder to maximize blood sugar control , so he should continue on aregular insulin sliding scale. once the patient is ready fordischarge to home , he should be switched back to his oralhypoglycemics.5. heme: we held the patient's coumadin or anticoagulation asit is contraindicated in the setting of endocarditis. now thathis sepsis seems to resolve , the patient should be restarted onhis coumadin in approximately 3 to 4 days after discharge with agoal of an inr of 2 to 3.6. psyche: the patient remained generally oriented to personand situation to hospital while inhouse , but occasionally slidedown especially in the setting of having fevers. he wascontinued on his home zoloft and we added a small dose ofzyprexa , which seemed to also help. the patient benefits fromregular reorientation which we suggest continuing.7. prophylaxis: the patient is to receive heparin t.i.d. andppi for dvt and ulcer prophylaxis respectively.8. access: the patient now has a pic line , which is in placeand can be used for iv antibiotics.discharge diet: his discharge diet is a 2-g sodium ada 1800 to2000 calories per day , low saturated fat , low cholesterol , andmechanical soft.discharge medications: his discharge medications are as follows;tylenol 650 mg p.o. q. 6h. p.r.n. pain or temperature , aspirin 81mg daily , colace 100 b.i.d. , lasix 60 p.o. daily , heparin 5000units subcutaneous t.i.d. , nph 16 units q.p.m. , regular insulinsliding scale a.c. and h.s. , levoxyl 100 mcg daily , rifampin 300mg p.o. b.i.d. , zoloft 50 p.o. daily , atrovent nebulizer 0.5 mgnebs q.4h. p.r.n. wheezing , nafcillin 2 g iv q. 4h , zyprexa 2.5mg p.o. nightly , miconazole 2% powder topical b.i.d. to rash ,advair diskus 250/50 one puff inhaled b.i.d. , duoneb q. 6h.p.r.n. wheezing , protonix 40 mg daily , toprol xl 25 mg p.o.daily , and allopurinol 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.to do: the patient should follow up with his cardiologist dr.gebauer and his pcp dr. lowell blass once discharged from short-termrehab. in addition , the patient should be seen by id clinic inapproximately 3 weeks to discuss remaining antibiotic therapy.in addition , the patient should have a set of labs drawn inapproximately 5 to 7 days to recheck his creatinine. pleasecheck blood cultures if the patient has a temperature. pleaseassess the nph regimen as above. please restart his coumadin at2.5 mg in 3 days with a goal inr of 2.3.escription document: 9-8494853 isfocus transcriptionistscc: blake a. oldridge md , phdlikan parkwaycc: rodolfo gersch m.d.cardiology division , mayland nicare hospitalen bajuanwoodale jodictated by: saucer , wesattending: orkwis , duncandictation id 1392725d: 2/3/05t: 2/3/05