747959081 | rvhc | 31199129 | | 585205 | 9/14/1995 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | unsigned | dis | admission date: 6/29/1995 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 6/11/1995preliminary diagnosis: coronary artery disease.history of present illness: the patient is a 62-year-oldwhite male status post anterior wallmyocardial infarction , status post tpa who presented withpost-infarct angina and three-vessel disease by catheterization.the patient's cardiac risk factors include diabetes , hypertension ,and positive family history. the patient denies cigarettes. thepatient is a very noncooperative historian.past medical history: the patient's past medical history issignificant for diabetes of 20 yearswithout neurological or retinopathy treated with oralhypoglycemics. the patient has long-standing hypotension of 30 to40 years. the patient , in 1985 , had a percutaneous transluminalcoronary angioplasty at the ribush bassta syark hospital and hashad rule outs since for myocardial infarction with the last oneapproximately in 1990 at dormro general hospital . thepatient , however , has been able to work and climb stairs and walkabout a mile without difficulty. several days to admission , thepatient reports pain and ache over the lower back and flanks aswell as substernal chest pain with radiation to the upper left arm.the patient is unable to describe any further symptoms. thepatient denied nausea or vomiting but says he was diaphoretic. thepatient took four to five nitroglycerins without relief. thepatient subsequently was admitted to agrit medical center and had atleast 3 hours of pain at pari . the patient was ruledin for anterior wall myocardial infarction with st elevations 4 to5 mm in v1. blood pressure was 152/95. the patient receivedfront-loaded tpa , heparin , aspirin , morphine sulfate andnifedipine. at 1:00 a.m. , the patient had recurrent chest painwith elevations in v1 through 6 , lead , 1 , avl and the patient wassubsequently transferred to the pepor el medical center of . atthe hitchter university medical center , the patient was cathed and had100% stenotic mid left anterior descending , 90% ulcerated obtusemarginal first branch , 60 to 70% stenotic right coronary artery andanterior apical aneurysm was noted. the patient was placed on anintra-aortic balloon pump in preparation for coronary artery bypasssurgery.past medical history: the patient's past medical history isinclusive of status post percutaneoustransluminal coronary angioplasty in '85 at ason medical center , coronary artery disease , diabetes , hypertension andruptured appendectomy 25 years prior to admission.medications on admission: the patient was admitted on thefollowing medications: diltiazem 60t.i.d. , glyburide , lisinopril 20 po q.day.allergies: the patient has no known drugallergies.physical examination: on physical examination , thepatient's temperature is 98.1 , heartrate 66 , sinus 137/57 , saturating at 97% and 100% face mask who isin no acute distress lying in bed with an intra-aortic balloonpump. heent: pupils are equal and reactive to light andaccommodation. intraocular muscles intact. oropharynx clear.neck: jugular venous pressure was about 8 cm. there was nohepatojugular reflux. no thyromegaly. no lymphadenopathy.carotids were 2+ without bruits. heart: a balloon pump was inplace. regular rate and rhythm. normal s1 , s2. no murmursappreciated. abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended withpositive bowel sounds. extremities: no clubbing , cyanosis oredema. the patient had 2+ dorsalis and posterior tibial pulsesbilaterally and on the right femoral artery had a rightintra-aortic balloon pump in place. there were no varices noted.hospital course: the patient went to the operatingroom on 9/29 , had a coronary arterybypass graft x three with a saphenous vein graft to the lad , firstbranch of the obtuse marginal and the posterior descending artery.the patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred to thecardiac surgery unit in stable condition. on postoperative day #1 ,the patient self-extubated himself and resultantly had an adequatearterial blood gas , thus not requiring emergent intubation. thepatient's intra-aortic balloon pump was subsequently removedwithout further incident , and the patient was subsequentlytransferred to the floor in stable condition. on postoperative day#3 , the patient had atrial fibrillation which was treated andcontrolled pharmacologically , and also the patient was treated withprophylactic anticoagulation with coumadin. the remainder of thehospital stay , the patient remained afebrile , tolerated his diet ,was ambulatory , had his chest tube and cordis and foley cathetersremoved. on postoperative day #6 , the patient converted to sinusrhythm , and the patient had planned discharge for 24 hours afterthat which would have been on 10/2 however , the patientrequested to be discharged to home. the condition was discussedwith the patient and the patient's wife which required continuedobservation until the morning for removal of epicardial wires.however , the patient refused to stay. he experienced a desire togo home stating that he does not like the food here and is unableto sleep and does not want further medical intervention. the risksof the discharge including rhythm , abnormalities and complicationsrelated to pacing wires were reviewed with the patient and hiswife.disposition: despite understanding potential risksfor discharge , the patient expresseddesire for leaving against medical advice. the above condition wasdiscussed with dr. poore , the attending surgeon. the patient wassubsequently found to have left the hospital by taxi with ivheplocks , wires and telemetry intact. the patient was called athome , and condition of his discharge and recommendations were givenwhich were to return to the hospital to have iv's , wires andtelemetry removed. the patient refused , however. he refused tohave the visiting nurse association to come in to remove his iv's.the patient was encouraged to return for clipping of the epicardialpacing wires; however , he refused. the patient's wife was sentwith prescriptions and risk management was also informed. thepatient was requested to return today , the 10 of october , to havepacing wires and telemetry removed as well as iv's. the patientreturned for an hour , had pacing wires removed and telemetry boxalso removed. the patient just left on his own accord. thepatient requested to follow-up with dr. schoening in 6 weeks and hiscardiologist in 2 weeks.dictated by: myles velasquez , m.d. lq81attending: arthur g. sheffield , m.d. jm0cx373/8912batch: 1641 index no. h7zcs825ki d: 4/3/95t: 4/3/95