569489673 | bho | 36767844 | | 6775129 | 8/1/2006 12:00:00 am | hand cellulitis | signed | dis | admission date: 5/22/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/6/2006attending: demont , craig jewell mdprincipal diagnosis: cellulitis.list of problems/diagnoses:1. inflammatory breast cancer.2. type ii diabetes.3. hypertension.4. hypercholesterolemia.5. chf with preserved systolic function.6. obstructive sleep apnea.7. asthma.8. spinal stenosis with herniated discs.brief history of present illness: ms. schwarzer is a 72-year-oldfemale with newly diagnosed ductal carcinoma and inflammatorybreast cancer of the left breast with a mass in the lung that issuggestive of likely stage iv disease who has also multiple othermedical problem including diabetes , who presents with a two-dayhistory of right and left finger warmth , tenderness and swelling.the patient is undergoing chemotherapy with adriamycin andcytoxan and is status post cycle 2 on 9/6/06 and began tofeel like she was recovering from her chemotherapy approximatelythree days prior to admission. a spinal mri obtained on tuesdayto evaluate her spinal stenosis was uneventful but later on thatday the patient developed redness on the dorsum of her right handin the area in which her iv was placed per the mri. thefollowing morning the patient had a pustular lesion on the fourthdigit of her right hand distal to the dorsal redness and went toeh urgent care where she received one dose of ceftriaxone andwas given a p.o. script for augmentin. she was sent home but athome she developed expulsive diarrhea and vomiting on thatevening , was not able to tolerate her oral antibiotics. the nextday she noticed a similar lesion on the fourth digit of her lefthand looking much like that on the right hand. she returned tothe tmhmc urgent care for one more dose of ceftriaxone and wasthen admitted to the hospital for iv antibiotics. the patientdenies any cat bites , travel , soil or water contract. she has nobruises , scrapes or previous lesions.past medical history: as detailed above.medicines:1. lantus 40 units nightly.2. aspirin 81 mg daily.3. lipitor 40 mg daily.4. zestril 2.5 mg daily.5. cardizem er 240 mg daily.6. lasix 20 mg daily.7. procrit 40000 units weekly.8. pamidronate.9. dexamethasone with chemotherapy.10. ac chemo.11. neulasta.12. ativan p.r.n.13. multivitamin.14. iron sulfate.15. isosorbide dinitrate 10 mg t.i.d.11. allegra 60 , 000 mg b.i.d.allergies:1. percodan.2. halothane causing fevers.3. atenolol causing sweating.4. sulfa causes a rash.social history: the patient lives alone in te she has avery sad social history in which her husband is a tx warveteran and came back to the ra and was serviceconnected with the pofield medical center of psychiatricdisturbances following his tour of duty. she has had three sons ,two twins who died earlier in life of some unspecified heartillness and a third son who died at the age of 21 after a longhospital stay with clear cell sarcoma of bone. she lives alonein a second floor walkup in du near inslareca cou pla shehas a distant history of tobacco 50 years ago. she rarely drinksalcohol. her friend and healthcare proxy is ezekiel stoviak , andthe phone # 288-186-2874.family history: there is no history of breast cancer. motherhad colon cancer. three aunts and maternal grandmother also hadcolon cancer. her son had a clear cell sarcoma of bone.review of systems: positive for nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ,lightheadedness and dizziness associated with her chemo but shedenies fevers , chills , sweats in the past 72 to 96 hours prior toadmission. she did have chest pain on 3/28/06 two days afterher chemo but none since and in the time leading up to herhospitalization.admisison physical exam: temperature was 98.9 , pulse 98 , bloodpressure 132/55 , respiratory rate 16 , 95% on room air. thepatient's physical exam was significant for alopecia and obesity.she was in no acute distress , alert and oriented. her pupilswere equal , round and reactive. conjunctivae were pink. she wasanicteric and her oropharynx was clear. jvp was hard to assessdue to neck fullness and she wears hearing aids. the lungs wereclear to auscultation except for decreased breath sounds withcrackles at the left base. cardiovascular exam was regular rateand rhythm with a normal s1 , s2 and no murmur , rubs or gallops.abdomen was soft and benign. extremities had trace to 1+ edema.the patient had an approximately 4 x 2 cm area of redness but noswelling , positive warmth and positive tenderness on the dorsalsurface of her right hand. she had a pustular lesion on her leftfourth digit and right third digit that had been i&d in ahurgent care.laboratory data: labs are significant for creatinine of 1 , whiteblood cell count of 4.33 , hematocrit of 25.5 and platelets of108. ekg showed a normal sinus rhythm with a leftward axis andfirst degree av block. chest x-ray was unremarkable.hospital course by problem: this is a 72-year-old woman withstage iii or stage iv breast cancer who now presents withparonychia and possible cellulitis of her right and left hands.infectious disease: the patient was initially started on ivvancomycin given the proximity of her recent chemotherapy. herfinger lesions and dorsal right hand lesions began to heal withintwo days of her admission. she underwent incision and drainageof her left hand's pustular lesion with improved speed of healingand decreased pain. after 48 hours in the hospital the patient'svancomycin was switched to keflex at which time the patientdeveloped a area of redness on her left forearm that measuredapproximately 6 cm x 4 cm in area. the lesion was notable for anerythematous base with punctuate red lesions that did not appearto be blanching. at the same time , she developed a very similarlesion on her right index finger between her mcp and pip. thepatient was switched back to iv vancomycin and the infectiousdisease consultants were called to assist with the management ofthe patient's evolving lesions. a tte was obtained that showed novegetations and serial blood cultures showed no bacteremia. theinfectious disease consultants suggested that the patient hadparonychia in her digits with transfer of bacterial infestationdue to skin breakdown in the area around her nails on her hands.the concern for septic emboli for which the patient was initiallytreated became less likely in the setting of the new lesions thatwere not in distribution that has been consistent with septicemboli. 48 hours later the patient was again switched fromvancomycin to keflex and within 12 hours developed newmaculopapular rash on her right neck and furuncles on her leftand right outer labia that were exquisitely painful. the patientwas given one more dose of iv vancomycin and then resumed onkeflex. dermatologists were consulted to help determine whetherthe patient was suffering from shingles and they deemed that shewas not and that her new rash was likely eczematous in nature andtopical steroid creams were prescribed. the new rash on theright neck quickly resolved and the furuncles on her labia weresymptomatically managed with sitz bath three times daily inaddition to her oral cephalosporin antibiotic.throughout the course of evolving dermatologic findings that thepatient experienced and the pain associated with them the patienthad continued to have absolutely no systemic complicationsassociated with these lesions. in particular , she did not havefever at all during the course of her hospitalization , she didnot have chills or sweats , she developed no new heart murmurs ,and her blood cultures remained negative throughout the course.the patient was started on iv acyclovir when her new rashdeveloped and on the day of discharge was switched over tovaltrex 1000 mg t.i.d. for management of presumed hsv infectionthough cultures remained pending at the time of discharge. thepatient will be discharged on keflex and valtrex to complete acourse of ten days on each.endocrine: the patient has a history of type ii diabetes , wasplaced on a weight based insulin regimen with good effect duringthe course of her hospitalization. on discharge , she will resumeher lantus 40 units nightly.cardiovascular: the patient has a history of diastolicdysfunction with a clean cath in 2005. her aspirin , statin ,zestril , cardizem , lasix and nitrates were continued during thecourse of her hospitalization in the same way that she takes themat home with very well controlled blood pressures and no issueswith her rhythm.the patient has a history of obstructive sleep apnea but does notuse cpap and do not have any difficulties with her oxygenationeven while sleeping.heme: the patient was initially anemic and thrombocytopenic onadmission. she received one unit of packed red blood cells andher hematocrit remained stable through the duration of herhospitalization.oncology: the patient has ductal carcinoma and inflammatorybreast cancer that is likely stage iv and she is status postcycle 2 of 16 of neoadjuvant chemotherapy with adriamycin andcytoxan with a plan for surgical removal after herchemotherapy.disposition: the patient will be discharged to home with vnaservices and physical therapy at home.discharge medications: tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4 h. p.r.n.headache , aspirin 81 mg daily , lipitor 40 mg daily , bacitracintopical to rash twice daily , keflex 500 mg p.o. q.i.d. x5 daysstarting on 2/8/06 to be completed on 9/23/06 , chlorhexidinethree packets daily washing area of rash , darbepoetin 100 mcgsubcutaneously weekly , diltiazem er 240 mg daily , colace 100 mgtwice daily , ferrous sulfate 300 mg daily , allegra 60 mg twicedaily , lasix 20 mg daily , hydrocortisone 2.5% cream topicallytwice daily to rash , dilaudid 2 to 4 mg p.o. q.4 h. p.r.n. pain ,lantus 40 units subcutaneously every evening , isosorbidedinitrate 10 mg three times daily , zestril 2.5 mg daily , ativan0.5 mg twice daily p.r.n. nausea , insomnia and anxiety , oceannasal spray two sprays nasally four times a day , multivitamin onetab daily , valtrex 1000 mg q.8 h. x21 doses , triamcinolone creamtopically once daily.physician followup plans: the patient will call dr. abed 'sclinic to make an appointment to follow up with her.the patient is full code.escription document: 4-9034970 cssten teldictated by: chinn , garfieldattending: masunaga , barney tracydictation id 9250556d: 2/8/06t: 2/8/06