590782388 | dnh | 87702030 | | 6512995 | 7/6/2006 12:00:00 am | pneumonia | unsigned | dis | admission date: 6/2/2006 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 3/3/2006attending: balis , norberto m.d.service: fhcc .discharge diagnoses:pneumonia and uti.associated discharge diagnoses:1. history of right mca embolic stroke on 5/15 status postright ica on 3/1/06 .2. history of temporal lobe epilepsy.3. add.4. stage iii non-small-cell lung cancer status post xrt andchemo.5. hypertension.6. asthma.7. graves' disease.8. depression.9. history of subclavian steal syndrome.10. history of urinary tract infection.history of present illness:this is a 63-year-old right-handed lady with history of stage iiinon-small-cell lung cancer status post xrt and chemotherapy ,history of right mca stroke status post right cea on 3/1/06 for70% stenosis of the right ica , question history of right temporallobe epilepsy , who was readmitted to the medicine service fromher nursing home for question of altered mental status , fever ,and cough. the patient was recently admitted from 2/24/06 to1/5/06 for change in mental status , treated for presumed utibut grew with yeast but no bacteria. the patient was consultedby neurology for increased somnolence. she had a head ct at thattime that shows encephalomalacia in right mca distributionconsistent with old stroke with no acute intracranialhemorrhages , midline shifts , or mass effect. no definitemetastatic lesions were observed. per patient's oncologist , herresponse to treatment has been excellent. she has a negativeeeg. mri/mra always shows the right mca infarct. normal b12 ,folate , tsh , and rpr. neurology at that time agreed that nofurther evaluation of somnolence is necessary at this time andleptomeningeal disease is unlikely given her lack of neurologicalfinding. the patient was then transferred to rehab on 1/5/06 .per nursing and discussion with house staff , the patient has hadwaxing and waning mental status and at times appearing alert andappropriate and other times somewhat hallucinating and agitated.she also had periods of cough and fever and pain on urination.according to the son , she has had a cough for the last 10 daysprior to admission. she has not been eating adequately with foodsticking out from her mouth and not quite responsive. she had achest x-ray done on 7/26/06 that shows a right hilar mass andright upper lobe infiltrate. she was started on moxifloxacin 400mg p.o. daily on 7/26/06 and then she was transferred here atkendertawn community hospital at the son's request for change in mentalstatus , cough , and fever and presumed pneumonia.in the ed , her temperature was 98.8 , pulse 122 , blood pressure160/68 , breathing at 20. she got vancomycin , levofloxacin , and 4l of fluids. chest x-ray was consistent with right upper lobepneumonia , question of postobstructive pneumonia. her ua wasquite dirty with oxalate crystal , yeast , and 100+ white bloodcells. she was started on vancomycin and levofloxacin forpresumed pneumonia and uti. her head ct was negative for anyacute change but also shows chronic right mca infarct. thepatient was transferred to the floor for further management.past medical history:1. right mca embolic cva 5/15 status post right ica on3/1/06 .2. history of temporal lobe epilepsy followed by amado routzen atcih .3. add.4. stage iii non-small-cell lung cancer status post xrt andchemo.5. hypertension.6. asthma.7. graves' disease.8. depression.9. history of subclavian steal syndrome.10. history of urinary tract infection.past surgical history:1. she had bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy 30 years ago.2. history of radioactive iodine for graves' disease 30 yearsago.medications on admission:1. cymbalta 20 mg b.i.d.2. lamictal 20 mg b.i.d.3. zydis 5 mg b.i.d. p.r.n.4. seroquel 100 mg b.i.d. p.r.n.5. niferex 150 mg b.i.d. p.o.6. lovenox 40 mg subq daily.7. vitamin b12.8. toprol xl 100 mg daily.9. zocor 20 mg daily.10. prilosec 20 mg p.o. daily.11. lactulose 30 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. constipation.12. synthroid 125 mcg p.o. daily.13. ritalin 2.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.14. compazine 10 mg p.o. b.i.d.15. lidoderm patch 5% topical.16. dilaudid 2 mg p.o. q.p.m.17. novolog sliding scale.18. apap 500 mg two tabs b.i.d.allergies:to iv contrast , penicillin for which she has a hive reaction ,valproic acid and sulfa drugs. demerol causes hypertension.social history:she is divorced , with two children. no alcohol use recently.100-pack-year history of smoking but quit , occasionally stillasks for cigarettes. the patient feels that she feels better onnicotine patch.family history:father died of mi at 73 , mother died in her 80s of emphysema.physical examination:vital signs: temperature 98.8 , pulse 122 , blood pressure 116/68 ,respiratory rate 20 , o2 saturation 90% on 2 l. she was achronically ill-appearing , minimally verbal , responding tocommands. heent: perrl , eomi , dry mucus membrane , poordentition , and no oral lesions. neck: supple , no lad , withhealing incisions on the right. chest: rhonchorous cracklesright greater than left. decreased breath sounds in her rightupper lobe with occasional wheezes. cardiac: tachy , regularrate , normal s1 and s2 , no murmur , rub , or gallop. abdomen:soft , nontender , nondistended , mild tenderness on palpation onthe right quadrant. extremities: no cyanosis , clubbing , oredema , 2+ dp pulses , contraction from upper extremity from strokebilaterally , worse on the left. left hand in a brace. skin: norashes , petechiae. neuro: oriented x2 , waxing and waningmental status: left-sided weakness , 0/5 strength upperextremity , 1/5 strength lower extremity , 2+ reflexes throughout.laboratory data:her labs are basically unremarkable. lytes; her white count is14.2 , hematocrit 37.6. she does have 2% polyps , 6% bands. lftsremarkable only for elevated alkaline phosphatase of 126.albumin is 3.4. her cardiac enzymes are less than assay. chestx-ray shows overall unchanged ill-defined right hilar mass andprior new faint parenchymal opacity in the right upper lobeconcerning to early pneumonia that can be postobstructive. ekgis tachy , normal sinus rhythm , no st-t wave changes. head ct , noacute change , chronic right mca infarct. echo , trace mr , ef55-60% , known lv function with diastolic dysfunction.assessment and plan:this is a 64-year-old right-handed woman with history of stageiii non-small-cell lung cancer status post xrt and chemotherapy ,history of right ica stroke status post right rca 3/1/06 ,recent hospitalization for change in mental status and uti whowas admitted from nursing home for altered mental status , fever ,and cough and dysuria. found to have pyuria with calcium oxalatecrystal , new right upper lobe opacity concerning forpostobstructive pneumonia. her head ct was unchanged. thepatient was admitted for presumed pneumonia and uti.id: the patient has elevated white blood cell count bandemia inthe setting of right upper lobe opacity concerning forpostobstructive pneumonia and also with pyuria with yeast. thepatient received vancomycin and levofloxacin in the ed. she wasbriefly put on vancomycin and levofloxacin and added flagyl foraspiration pneumonia. she subsequently also switched over tovancomycin , ceptaz , and flagyl to cover for pseudomonas. herurine culture grew out yeast and her blood culture was negativeto date. her antibiotic regimen was changed back tolevofloxacin , flagyl on p.o. regimen. on postoperative day #4 ,she was improving. she did have one brief episode ofhypertension on hospital day #2 that responded to iv fluids. shehas required no escalation in antibiotics and toleratedlevofloxacin and flagyl quite well. she will continue herlevofloxacin and flagyl for an additional 14 days. she also gota chest ct that shows right upper lobe pneumonia and alsoquestion of consolidation in right lung with underlyingemphysema. the consolidation is contiguous with the right hilumand underlying hilar adenopathy or hilar mass cannot be excluded.she also has small right pleural effusion. the findings werediscussed with dr. szufat who is her oncologist and he felt thatshe is likely having post xrt changes and no further workup isnecessary for now. she will continue to finish her course ofantibiotics of p.o. levofloxacin and flagyl for 14 days.urology: her uti shows yeast. given that the fact that she hasmultiple episodes of yeast uti currently , she was treated withfluconazole for three days.neuro: she has changes in mental status waxing and waning ,however , the patient's mental status has greatly improvedthroughout her hospital stay although with occasional episode ofhallucinations. for example she was thinking that the residentis her niece. psych , onch , and geriatrics was asked to see thepatient at the son's request. both psy onc and geriatricsbelieved that her change in mental status is multifactorial , andis likely a result of delirium rather than dementia. theyrecommended avoiding pain meds and oversedating meds and startedher on zyprexa 5mg bid , 2.5mg bid prn agitation , and can increaseto 10mg po qhs if necessary for agitation. she was continued onher lamictal and cymbalta and has no further neurologicaldecompensation. her seroquel was decreased to 50 mg b.i.d.p.r.n. and zydis 5 mg p.o. p.r.n. , however , she was not receivingthese medications as she was not agitated. she had one dose ofseroquel on 3/11 early am and got really over sedated. seroquelwas d/c and patient should not be receiving seroquel in thefuture for risk of oversedation. her vitals were stablethroughout.cv: history of controlled prolonged qtc on haldol. her haldolwas dc'd last admission , is now on zyprexa and seroquel. herekgs were stable throughout her hospital stays.heme/onch: the patient has history of stage iii non-small-celllung cancer status post xrt and chemotherapy and is followed byher outpatient oncologist , dr. miquel grothe , at the nawin tayjeune antri- community hospital as well as the outpatient psycho/onch socialworker whose name is dr. hugh dress . the patient was seen bypsych/onch and geriatric. dr. kiel stated that she does nothave any further chemotherapy treatment planned for the future.he will evaluate her when he sees her again in clinic. she isnot currently at the best medical condition to receive anyfurther therapy.endocrine: she was given novolog sliding scale for diabetes andlevothyroxine for history of graves' and history of radioiodineablation.fen: the patient was seen by speech and swallow for question ofdysphagia and difficulty with swallowing and eating. thepatient's video flow examination shows prolonged oral phase , butshe did well on the rest of her video swallow examination so shewas put on a mince ground diet and thin liquids. alternateliquids and solids with tongue sweep to remove oral cavityresidue. the patient recommended to sit upright to take smallbites and sips. she should be seen by speech and swallow forfollow up swallow treatments two to three times per week. shealso was given nutrition consult who started the calorie counts.nutrition recommended that she may be need long-term nutritionaltherapy if she does not meet her nutritional goal. that will bedeferred to her outpatient doctors at a later time. she willneed assists and encouragement with feeding. she was also givennexium for prophylaxis and replete her lytes with an americandiabetic diet with low salt. she was given lovenox and ppi forprophylaxis.code: full code.the patient is discharged to rehab in stable condition.discharge medications:1. tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. headache.2. albuterol inhaler two puffs inhaler q.6h. p.r.n. shortness ofbreath or wheezing.3. aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.4. dulcolax 5-10 mg p.o. daily p.r.n. constipation.5. vitamin b12 50 mcg p.o. daily.6. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.7. dilaudid 1-2 mg p.o. q.12h. p.r.n. pain.8. ibuprofen 600 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. pain and temperature.9. lactulose 30 ml p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. constipation.10. synthroid 125 mcg p.o. daily.11. ritalin 2.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.12. toprol xl 100 mg p.o. daily.13. flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. x14 days.14. niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.15. senna two tabs p.o. b.i.d.16. zocor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s.17. neurontin 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.18. compazine 5-10 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. nausea.19. lovenox 20 mg subq daily.20. lamictal 200 mg p.o. b.i.d.21. levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. daily x14 days.22. seroquel 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. insomnia and anxiety.23. nexium 20 mg p.o. daily.24. combivent neb q.6h. p.r.n. shortness of breath.25. zydis 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. anxiety.26. lidoderm 5% patch topical daily.27. novolog sliding scale q.a.c. and q.h.s.28. cymbalta 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.disposition:the patient is to be discharged to rehab. she will follow upwith her pcp and dr. ratley .escription document: 1-8697387 emssten telcc: lesley scoh m.d.dictated by: licalzi , eltonattending: estis , faustinodictation id 5243210d: 9/24/06t: 9/24/06