374505213 | smmc | 30420782 | | 706155 | 6/28/1998 12:00:00 am | renal failure | signed | dis | admission date: 10/13/1998 report status: signeddischarge date: 4/6/1998principal diagnosis: right groin abscess.problem list: ( 1 ) status post renal transplantation , livingrelated donor april 1997 , ( 2 ) hypertension , ( 3 )insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , ( 4 ) pulmonary hypertension ,( 5 ) hyperthyroidism , ( 6 ) hyperparathyroidism , ( 7 )hypertriglyceridemia.history of present illness: the patient is a 42-year-old whiteman who presents with complaints offever to 103 and chills , a productive cough and groin pain lastingthree days. at age three , the patient was diagnosed with wilms'tumor on the left , which was resected and subsequently treated withwide field radiation. the patient , thereafter developedradiation-induced tyroid cancer , at which time he underwentsubtotal thyroidectomy. in addition , the patient developedradiation nephritis in his remaining right kidney and pulmonaryfibrosis. in april of 1997 , the patient underwent living relateddonor renal transplantation for chronic renal failure. the patientwas at that point cmv antigen negative , however , the donor kidneywas cmv antigen positive. the patient underwent an uncomplicatedtransplantation , however , the postoperative course was complicatedby cytomegalovirus infection , presenting with diarrhea andrequiring hospitalization in february 1997. the patient was treatedwith ganciclovir and subsequently maintained on cytovene. thepatient remained healthy until august 1997 , at which time he wasagain admitted for a recrudescence of his cytomegalovirusinfection. in august 1997 , the patient presented with athree-day history of fever to approximately 105 , anorexia , drycough , fatigue , headache , dizziness , sweats , nausea and dyspnea onexertion. the patient was , at that point , treated withganciclovir , however his fevers persisted and he was dischargedafter five days of therapy. at that time , the patient's cmvantigen test was negative , however , his shell vial cultures , bothreturned as positive. the patient was maintained on ganciclovirtherapy in the post hospital course until april , 1997 , atwhich time his peripherally inserted catheter was removed.subsequently , the patient has been healthy for approximately fourweeks , then on june , 1998 , he noted a groin lump on theright. from june , 1998 , he noted feelingworse with fevers and chills , and a productive cough beginning onseptember , 1998. the patient's groin lump , subsequently , becamepainful , and he passed several loose bowel movements.past medical history: ( 1 ) wilms' tumor , ( 2 ) status post leftnephrectomy with wide field radiationtherapy , ( 3 ) nch renal disease status post living related donorrenal transplant from father in april 1997 , ( 4 ) hypertension , ( 5 )insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , ( 6 ) pulmonary hypertension ,( 7 ) hyperthyroid , ( 8 ) hyperparathyroid , ( 9 ) hypertriglyceridemia ,( 10 ) gout , ( 11 ) cmv infection in february 1997 and august 1997 ,( 12 ) history of perirectal abscess , ( 13 ) history of atrialfibrillation spontaneously converted in october 1998.allergies: no known drug allergies.admission medications: synthroid 150 mcg q.d. , nph insulin 14units q.a.m. , regular insulin p.r.n. ,nadolol 80 mg q.d. , prednisone 10 mg q.d. , neoral 100 mg b.i.d. ,cellcept 1 g b.i.d. , axid 150 mg q.d. , lasix 80 mg p.o. p.r.n. ,coumadin 4 mg q.d.social history: the patient lives at home with his wife and hasfour children. he denies alcohol or tobacco use.family history: no coronary artery disease. no history of cancer.physical examination: the patient is a pleasant , but ill-appearingman in some respiratory distress , lying inbed. temperature is 103 , heart rate 70 , blood pressure 160/80 ,respirations 26 , oxygen saturation 90% on 4 l oxygen. heentexamination was notable for cushingoid facies and flushing wasevident. no lymphadenopathy. the neck was supple , mucousmembranes moist and sclera were anicteric. chest examinationrevealed crackles on the right to half way up. heart examinationrevealed a noisy precordium with a prominent t2 and a 2/6 systolicejection murmur. abdominal examination was negative. extremityexamination revealed some slight swelling of the lower extremities.cutaneous examination was notable for evidence of thin subcutaneoustissues and development of a buffalo hump.laboratory data: white count of 11.3 with 46 polys , 36lymphocytes and 7 bands , hematocrit was 32.4 andplatelets were 143 , 000. coagulation studies revealed a prothrombintime of 15.8 and an inr of 1.8. electrolytes were within normallimits , blood urea nitrogen was 39 , creatinine was 2.5 , glucose was85 , calcium 10.2. liver function tests revealed an alkalinephosphatase of 342 , total protein was 7.9 with an albumin of 3.9.cholesterol was 194 , triglycerides were 249. cyclosporine levelwas 303.hospital course:1. infectious diseases: surgery was consulted and the right groinabscess was drained and a wick was inserted. this wound wasdressed and continued care was preformed by nursing staff. bloodcultures on admission revealed no growth and on hospital day tworevealed no growth. wound cultures revealed few coagulase ,negative staph. antibiotics were initiated , first vancomycin ,gentamicin and flagyl were initiated , however gentamycin wassubsequently discontinued and ceftazidime was initiated. thepatient had one fever spike on hospital day one to 101.9. thepatient subsequently had no fever spikes , however , on hospital daythree levaquin was initiated and intravenous antibiotics werecontinued until hospital day four. at that point , the patient hadbeen afebrile for 48 hours and the decision was made to switch thepatient to oral antibiotics , including levaquin and augmentin. thepatient continued to defervesce , his breathing improved , the painin his right groin improved , dressing changes were continued andthe patient remained afebrile for more than 24 hours afterinitiating oral antibiotics.2. cardiovascular: the patient has a history of hypertension andhas been maintained on nadolol , recently requiring a doubling inhis dose from 40 mg q.d. to 80 mg q.d. he was admitted and placedon 80 mg q.d. of nadolol , however , his blood pressures continued torun up to 170 systolic and up to 110 diastolic. at that time , thedecision was made to initiate a second antihypertensive medicationand nifedipine xl was chosen. he was maintained for two days at 30mg on this medication and his blood pressures subsequentlystabilized at 130/80. the patient also carries a diagnosis ofpulmonary hypertension , presumed from the february 1997 , resultsof his echocardiogram. these results revealed a pressure gradientin the pulmonary arterial system , and on this admission asubsequent echocardiogram was obtained to assess left ventricularfunction and his pulmonary vascular status. the results of thisstudy revealed 2+ tricuspid regurgitation and 1+ mitralregurgitation , unchanged from prior studies and a pulmonaryarterial pressure of approximately 45 mmhg , also not notablychanged.3. pulmonary: on admission , the patient reported a productivecough , in addition to difficulty breathing. this was evaluatedwith a chest radiogram , which revealed possibility of a right sidedpulmonary process , corroborated on examination by evidence ofcrackles half way up. the decision was made to rule the patientout for another flare of his cmv infection. studies for cmvantigen and cmv from the buffy coat were sent and the final resultsrevealed a positive cmv antigen , but a negative buffy coat. thepatient's pulmonary status improved on oxygen and on intravenousantibiotics. a induced sputum sample was obtained and studies weresent for atypical organisms including cpt , fungi , in addition tobacteria. all these studies were negative. in addition ,legionella antigen was also negative. prior to discharge , thepatient's pulmonary status had returned to baseline and hadentirely resolved.4. gastrointestinal: on admission , the patient reported multipleloose bowel movements. however , in his hospital course this didnot continue to be an issue. the patient also regained hisappetite during the hospital course.5. hematologic: the patient was continued on his anticoagulationfor history of atrial fibrillation at 4 mg daily with an inrremaining in his goal parameters , which were set at 1.6-2.0. thepatient however , has recently spontaneously converted to sinusrhythm and throughout his hospital course remained in sinus rhythmwith continuous monitoring.6. renal: on admission , the patient's creatinine level was 2.5and remained stable throughout his hospital course. hiscyclosporine level was 303 on admission , on hospital day four , alevel of 700 was obtained , however , this determined from a historythat this level had been drawn shortly after the patient had takenthe cyclosporine. during his hospital course , vancomycin levelswere followed. these levels reached a maximum of 19.8 on hospitalday four , at which time intravenous antibiotics were discontinued.7. endocrine. the patient carries a history of multiple endocrineissues including hypercalcemia and hyperparathyroidism , diabetesmellitus , hyperthyroidism on thyroid replacement therapy followingsubtotal thyroidectomy , and possibility of mineral corticoiddeficiency. the endocrine team was consulted. thyroid studies andparathyroid studies were sent and revealed a tsh of 0.02 , a t4 of6.0 , a thpr of 1.47. on discharge , the patient's parathyroid 1 , 25vitamin d and 25 vitamin d were still pending. the endocrine teamrecommended decreasing his synthroid dose to a level of 125 mcgdaily. in addition , they recommended a bone densitometry study forevaluation of his bone mass following chronic maintenance on thesteroid therapy and a history of hyperparathyroidism. the teamthought that the patient's previous question of a mineral corticoiddeficiency was likely due to his prior cozaar therapy. they didnot fell it was necessary at this point to preform a cortizonestimulation study or to further assess this possibility of amineral corticoid deficiency.discharge medications: augmentin 250/125 mg t.i.d. , levaquin 250mg q.d. , cellcept 500 mg b.i.d. , neoral 100mg b.i.d. , prednisone 10 mg q.d. , synthroid 125 mcg q.d. , inpinsulin 14 units subcu q.a.m. , regular insulin subcu p.r.n. , axid150 mg q.d. , nadolol 80 mg q.d. , nifedipine xl 30 mg q.d. , coumadin4 mg q.d. , iron sulfate 300 mg q.d.condition on discharge: stable.disposition: to home.follow-up: 1. bone densitometry september , 1998.2. dr. clinton ardizone march , 1998.3. dr. win in october .dictated by: mohammad cleark , m.d.attending: fabian v. pomponi , m.d. td2  qy346/4529batch: 80268 index no. q4eqks3yiu d: 1/17/98t: 9/7/98