record date: 2109-09-14 september 14, 2109  vicente blair, m.d.  internal medical doctors hospital north omak, georgia 72196  re: valdez, harlan dhn#: 7672624 date of birth: 11/09/2062 current clinic visit date: 09/14/2109  dear vicente,  thank you in advance for allowing me to share in the medical care of mr. harlan b. valdez, a 46-year-old male patient with prior polysomnographic evidence of sleep disordered breathing, as well as a history of difficulty in sleep, reinitiation and maintenance and increased early morning awakenings, as well as mixed systemic medical conditions.   history of present illness: as you already know, mr. valdez who demonstrates a history of difficulties of sleep reinitiation and maintenance, as well as increased early morning awakenings, has noted an exacerbation of these sleep difficulties, occurring in temporal association with his loss of his wife from pancreatic cancer last year. he is now placed in the unfortunate situation of being a single parent to a 15-year-old son and a 10-year-old daughter and describes a modification of his current employment duties of a set designer. in particular, mr. valdez describes undergoing on frequent international travelling which has bee markedly curtailed as he is tending to his family situation closer to home.   he described a history of intermittent snoring symptomatology but is unaware of specific nocturnal respiratory pauses. he is unaware of a "restless" lower limb sensory complaints which may impact on his ability to initiate or reinitiate sleep. he denies a history of a " night owl" personality or circadian rhythm dysfunction which may have played a role with respect to nocturnal sleep disruptions or sleep difficulties.   he denies a history of paroxysmal abnormal disturbances or associated narcoleptic symptoms.   mr. valdez underwent an initial formal polysomnographic evaluation at the center for sleep diagnostics at holy cross on 11/26/05, during which time he was noted to demonstrate a respiratory disturbance index of 81/hour, particularly exacerbated in the supine position and characterized predominantly by hypopneas, with equal distribution during non-rem and stage rem sleep and with associated o2 desaturation nadir of 88% the respiratory disturbances were predominantly obstructive or mixed hypopneas. in addition, loud snoring was noted.   there was evidence of a sleep efficiency of 88% and a short sleep onset latency of 4 minutes. there was a predominance of "light" non-rem stages i-ii sleep, and a concomitant inability to achieve significant "slow-wave" or stage rem sleep. there was also "alpha intrusions and alpha delta sleep" evident during the initial sleep study. in addition premature ventricular contractions were noted.   the patient underwent a cpap titration on 01/15/06, also at the tenacre foundation nursing home in boxborough, during which time there was a marked reduction in the frequency of hypopneas (respiratory disturbance index equals 2/hour) with cpap titrations between 4-6 cm. sleep efficiency improved to 91%, a short sleep onset latency was also noted (3 minutes). there was once again an increased predominance of "light" non-rem stage i-ii sleep, with concomitant inability to achieve sustained "slow wave sleep".   since his initial trial of nocturnal cpap titration (at 6 cm of water pressure) and with various cpap mask modifications (including cpap nasal face mask and a mallinckrodt "breeze" supportive head gear with "nasal pillows". the patient describes associated claustrophobic symptomatology, relative difficulties with sustained nocturnal home cpap use, and difficulties with regards to cpap to being and complications by the bulkiness of the cpap machine in general. as a result, he has not utilized nocturnal cpap therapy for a period of time, although he still maintains the cpap equipment in his house.   of particular note, and exacerbation of the past year, the patient demonstrates increased early morning awakenings (averaging 2-4 in number) with typical awakenings occurring approximately two hours after sleep initiation at 9:30 p.m. (the patient describes one awakening at 11:30 p.m. and the second awakening at 11:45 a.m., of unclear causative etiology). the patient then might awaken at 3 a.m. and be "ready for the day".  if he is able to reinitiate sleep thereafter, the patient may demonstrate additional two early morning awakenings after a final awakening at 6 a.m.   the patient is noted to have a history of mixed systemic conditions including diabetes, coronary artery disease, depressive disorder, as well as a relatively stable gastrointestinal condition, with no upper gi evidence of gastroparesis.   medications:  1. provigil 200 mg p.o. q. a.m. prn.  2. lithium.  3. valproate.  4. glucophage 850 mg t.i.d.  5. humulin 15 units at night.  6. folate.  7. metoprolol.  8. cardia.  9. vitamin e.  10. coated aspirin.   allergies/adverse reactions: the patient describes an enhancement to suicidal tendencies in association with prior prozac usage.   social history: the patient denies active tobacco or alcoholic beverage usage. he has lost 15-20 pounds over the past several years. his current weight is 195 pounds. he is desirous of losing some additional weight with regards to more regular exercise, but his hectic social situation makes this somewhat difficult at the present time.   on examination, the patient demonstrates a blood pressure of 146/88, (seated, left arm), respiratory rate 16.   heent examination: borderline small posterior oropharyngeal aperture, with slightly increased redundant tissue evident posteriorly and a slightly elongated uvula noted.   the patient appears awake, alert, with speech clear and fluent and receptive language function essentially intact. he is presently wearing dental braces. no obvious cranial nerve deficits are appreciated. no focal, sensory, motor or neurologic deficits are noted. no significant appendicular dystaxias or dysmetrias are currently in evidence. the routine gait appears to be normal based, without evidence of significant gait dystaxias.  no current clinical ictal manifestations are present. no acute evidence of "micro-sleeps" are noted.   impression:  1. sleep stage/arrousal dysfunction (780.56): manifested by subjective complaints of nonrestorative sleep, increased daytime fatigue and alternating hypersomnia, and recurrent polysomnographic evidence of "lightened" sleep pattern, with increased predominance of non-rem stages 1-2 sleep, and with the presence of "alpha" intrusions and "alpha delta" component to deeper sleep. these latter eeg findings have been described in association with subjective complaints of nonrestorative sleep, as well as clinical setting of chronic pain related complaints, depressive or anxiety disorder or intercurrent psychotropics agents used (but more usually associated with benzodiazepine or barbituate usage).  2. sleep disordered breathing: as evidenced during prior polysomnographic evaluations, mostly of obstructive and or mixed hypopnea. the patient appears largely refractory to a trial of cpap therapy, particularly in so far as he demonstrates associated claustrophobic symptoms in association with it's usage, despite relatively modest cpap water pressures (6 cm). in addition, he has tried various nasal cpap face mask, including the mallinckrodt "breeze" supportive head gear with "nasal pillows" and with limited success. one might consider repeating a polysomnographic evaluation in the future, and if so, utilizing a potential trial of bipap titration, which may help to improve claustrophobic symptoms, but the patient will still be left with the issues referable to "tangled tubing at night" and issues referable to nasal face mask usage, as noted above.  3. relative difficulties in sleep reinitiation and maintenance:  the patient describes at least 2-4 early morning awakenings with difficulty in sleep reinitiation and maintenance, thereby compounding his current sleep problem. while there would logically be a relationship between his current sleep exacerbations and the recent death of his wife from pancreatic cancer last year, there may also be evidence of other nocturnal sleep disturbances for which a repeat polysomnographic evaluation; i.e. in particular looking for the presence of increased spontaneous arousals or limb associated arousals or periodic limb movements of sleep may be of a special clinical benefit.   plan:  1. in the short course, in so far as the patient describes himself as being exceedingly tired, and unable to perform the routine daily tasks of work and managing a family in the absence of his deceased wife, i have suggested initiation of prn zolpidem tartrate therapy, 5 mg tablets, utilizing one to two tablets p.o.  q. h.s. prn for difficulties of sleep reinitiation and maintenance.  2. the patient is advised to take zolpidem tartrate therapy no more than 2-3 times per week, in an effort to avoid any issues of physiologic dependency.  3. the patient was advised against potential adverse behavioral and or systemic side effects of zolpidem tartrate therapy including  hypersomnolence, gastric upset, loose stools, diarrhea, and or cardiac palpitations.  pending his clinical response of his zolpidem tartrate therapy, i then might seek direct treatment for his sleep disordered breathing issues which may include a repeat sleep study with potential trial of bipap therapy (in an effort to modify or attenuate claustrophobic symptoms). if he proves poorly responsive to trial of bipap therapy however, i might consider supplemental o2 therapy at night and, with this in mind a follow up sleep study should have associated end-tidal co2 monitoring as well.  4. in the meantime, the patient was advised to contact the sleep disorders clinic for any acute sleep related concerns in the interim.  5. the patient may also benefit from nonpharmacologic approaches with regards to sleep reinitiation such as hypnotherapy, but i will hold off on these strategies pending follow up sleep disorders clinic evaluation (in approximately four months time).   once again, thank you again for allowing me to share in the medical care of mr. harlan valdez. i hope this letter finds you well.   sincerely yours,   yovani vergara, m.d.  sleep clinic doctors hospital north   cc: sleep clinic dhn  dd:09/14/2109 dt:09/15/2109 tx:24217     :1991  