490647844 | rhmc | 10121768 | | 5255608 | 6/13/2004 12:00:00 am | congestive heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 7/10/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/19/2004attending: lazaro hinshaw mdadmitting diagnosis: chf exacerbation.list of problems and diagnoses:1. chf.2. cad status post cabg in 1988.3. chronic renal insufficiency.4. type ii diabetes.5. glaucoma.6. hypercholesterolemia.7. history of bowel resection for diverticulitis.8. question of tia in the past with right-sided numbness.brief history of present illness:ms. elter is an 83-year-old spanish-speaking female with historyof cad , distant three-vessel cabg , cri , nstemi in 10/29 ,treated with just medications , ef of 75% in 10/29 , whopresented one week of pnd , dyspnea on exertion , and chestheaviness. this chest sensation did not radiate and wasunassociated with nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis orlightheadedness. the patient also had cough with green sputum x1year , no fevers or chills , no sick contacts. ems gave lasix andnitrospray. in the ed , she was briefly on a nonrebreather mask ,responded to 80 mg of iv lasix , k was 5.8 and got kayexalate.she became comfortable , sitting at 75 degrees , chest pain-free.also , noted no change in bowel/bladder habits , no change in medsand no dietary changes. she had positive progressive lowerextremity edema x2 weeks.allergies:lisinopril leading to hyperkalemia.social history:retired textile worker from ral , lives with daughter , and isspanish speaking.home medications:aspirin , metoprolol , allopurinol , valsartan , glipizide , lipitor ,and nifedipine.physical examination on admission:temperature was 96 , pulse was 70 , blood pressure was 148/56 ,respiratory rate was 20 , and saturating 100% on nonrebreather andeventually in the high 90s on a couple of liters of oxygen. ingeneral , she was in no acute distress , jvp 12 cm with positivehepatojugular reflux , soft bibasilar rales , regular rate andrhythm , 2-3/6 systolic murmur , loudest at the left upper sternalborder , ( mild as on echo from 1/26 ). abdomen was soft ,nontender , and nondistended , bowel sounds positive. extremitiesshowed 3+ bilateral pitting ankle edema with weak distal pulses.laboratory data:showed a sodium of 129 , potassium of 5.7 , creatinine of 2.8 witha baseline anywhere between 2 and 3.5 , cardiac enzymes negativex1 , bnp of 1448. ekg showed normal sinus rhythm at 73 , septalqs , qtc of 456. chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly , small bilateraleffusions , no infiltrate.hospital course by problems:1. cardiovascular: ischemia: rule out mi by enzymes and ekgwith a full set negative. continued her aspirin , beta-blockers ,and statin for coronary artery disease. pump: chf flare withelevated bnp , volume overload , diuresed with lasix and diuril;salt/water restricted , kept strict i/o with moderate diuresis.after load reduced with arb , weaned off her previous home calciumchannel blocker. rhythm: telemetry showing transient new atrialfibrillation with a maximum heart rate of less than 70 , whichspontaneously resolved after several hours. an echo showedstable aortic stenosis without any acute worsening. she also hada rhythm strip on the telemetry showing a regular focus ofventricular ectopy , also spontaneously resolving. this wastreated with continued beta-blockers. at the time of discharge ,she was in normal sinus rhythm.2. renal: chronic renal insufficiency with baseline creatinineof 2.8 to 3.3 , with acute worsening in-house , most likelysecondary to over diuresis with diuril/lasix , also some prerenalcomponent secondary to fluid restriction. her potassium waselevated initially , got kayexalate , and then was low/low normalafter lasix. creatinine peaked at 4.1 , lasix and arbs were held.urine study showed a prerenal component , also showed someproteinuria. her creatinine eventually improved to 3.3 , and herbicarb improved from 17 to 23 with the closing of her acid gapfrom 17 to 11. potassium was 4.5 at the time of discharge. thepatient will need to follow up with dr. dasgupta , hernephrologist , and she was set up for an appointment on 2/18/04 .3. endocrine: dm-2 , she was treated with regular sliding scaleinsulin with good blood sugar control. her glipizide was heldgiven that her creatinine clearance was worsening. we did notrestart her glipizide at the time of discharge until follow upwith dr. ohlenbusch given her overall worsening creatinineclearance.4. rheumatology: history of gout , change her allopurinol toq.72h. from q.o.d. secondary to creatinine clearance. she didcomplain of some left heel pain and left foot pain , thoughtsecondary to her gout. this improved at the time of discharge.5. heme: hematocrit dropped from 29 to 25 , her guaiac wasnegative on the 2/5/04 . she also has epistaxis at night forfour to five days. she was placed on humidified room air givennasal saline sprays and afrin. because of her coronary arterydisease , she was transfused total of 3 units over the course ofher hospital stay to keep her hematocrit greater than 30. shewas given lasix after her transfusions. an ent evaluation showeda small area of ulceration in her posterior nasopharynx , whichwill need a follow up possibly with a ct as an outpatient to ruleout malignancy. at the time of her discharge , her hematocrit was36. initially , coumadin was started given her new onset ofatrial fibrillation. after consideration of risks versus benefitof anticoagulation , her transient atrial fibrillation whichresolved spontaneously , it was decided to continue any furtheranticoagulation and send her out just on aspirin. she didreceive subcutaneous heparin for dvt prophylaxis while in-house.gi: the patient initially had some constipation , which wasrelieved with stool softeners. the patient's stool was guaiacnegative. the patient received the ppi.disposition:the daughter who is the patient's healthcare proxy was made awareof the patient's status and disposition throughout her hospitalcourse. a pt evaluation indicated that the patient would benefitfrom a period of re-stay at rehab , however the patient familypreferred the patient to go home and was constant that they wouldbe able to provide 24/7 support over the next week as the patientwill need help in navigating her home which included two flightsof stairs. pt was comfortable with this and this was explainedthoroughly to the patient and her family with regard to the risksversus benefit of going home versus going to rehab. the patientwill follow up with dr. heingartner in one to two weeks , which hasnot been scheduled , and with dr. tsunoda with nephrology whichhas been scheduled for 2/18/04 . communication was made with dr.smyth regarding her admission here. the patient will be senthome with vna support to follow up on her weights and fluidstatus , she will also have home physical therapy.code status:full code.medications:1. lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d.2. lipitor 80 mg p.o. q.d.3. metoprolol sustained release 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.4. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. for constipation.5. allopurinol 100 mg p.o. q.72h.4. aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.5. valsartan 160 mg p.o. q.d.primary care physician:buck kuerbitz , m.d.escription document: 9-2630279 bffocusdictated by: zurheide , earlattending: proper , andrewdictation id 3797715d: 7/27/04t: 4/13/04