record #94893275653997 | lhmc | 37345466 | | 522933 | 6/6/1996 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 1/9/1996 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/25/1996principal diagnosis: restrictive pulmonary disease.other diagnoses: 1 ) obstructive sleep apnea.2 ) chronic hypoxia.3 ) status post hypercarbic respiratory arrest.4 ) obesity.5 ) mild hypertension.6 ) recurrent lower extremity deep venousthromboses.7 ) osteoarthritis secondary to mechanicalderangements secondary to obesity.8 ) type ii diabetes mellitus.9 ) depression.history of present illness: the patient is a 51 year-old morbidlyobese black female with a history ofrestrictive lung disease , obstructive sleep apnea , recurrent lowerextremity deep venous thromboses requiring multiplehospitalizations who was initially evaluated on january , 1996 forright knee pain. evaluation revealed a small right knee effusionconsistent with mechanical derangement secondary to obesity. thetap was negative for crystals and had negative cultures. thepatient was initially supposed to go home , however due toinadequate support , she was kept overnight on the evening of july , 1996. overnight she received vistaril , percocet as well assome demerol and oxycodone. on the morning of january , 1996 , shewas found to be unresponsive with bloody saliva dripping from hermouth. a code green was called. they were unable to find a bloodpressure. the patient was intubated. dopamine was started.narcan was given. the blood pressure recovered. the patientawakened and the patient's initial arterial blood gas prior tointubation was 7.04 ph , pco2 137 and po2 of 85 and she wassubsequently admitted to the medical intensive care unit.past medical history: her past medical history is significant fora restrictive lung disease. past pulmonaryfunction tests revealed an fev of 1.8 which is in the 56thpercentile and fev1 of 1.6 which is in the 59th percentile , tlc of3.3 in the 54th percentile and dlco at 116th percentile. she hasbeen on long term home oxygen with oxygen saturation between 85%and 90% on two liters of nasal cannula. arterial blood gases onprior admissions have revealed po2 in 50 , pco2 in the high 40s tolow 50s. she has a history of obstructive sleep apnea. she hasbeen evaluated in the past with even trace apnea screen in novemberof 1994 which revealed approximately 19 apnea events in just over10 hours. the oxygen saturation decreased to 61% at the minimumand subsequently she had respiratory monitoring in july of 1995 withc-pap which revealed a decrease in the apnea episodes to 19 eventsin about 480 minutes with oxygen saturation decreasing to a minimumof 71%. apparently , by report , attempts had been made to start thepatient on the c-pap at home , but the patient had been resistantand she has a long history of medical non-compliance. she has ahistory of recurrent deep venous thromboses in which she has hadmultiple medical admissions , most recently about six in the pastyear , most recently in march of 1996 , for cellulitis of the leftlower extremity , in august of 1996 , bilateral calf tenderness withnegative non-invasive studies and in july of 1996 , most recentlywith right lower extremity cellulitis and this was complicated byapparent chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare. the patienthas had multiple vq scans in the past , all of which have been lowprobability. the patient has been on chronic coumadin , howeverthere is a question of whether or not , she has been taking itregularly. there has also been a question in the past of possiblediastolic dysfunction. in july of 1994 , she had anechocardiogram which showed some left ventricular hypertrophy , noregional wall motion abnormalities and an ejection fraction ofapproximately 55% , no right ventricular hypertrophy or tricuspidregurgitation. other past medical history includes a history ofdepression. the patient has been managed with zoloft 50 mg p.o. q.day. she is status post midline hernia repair. she is status postbilateral tubal ligation. the patient has chronic hypoxemia ,obesity , obstructive sleep apnea , chronic lower extremity deepvenous thromboses and obstructive lung disease.medications on admission: 1 ) diltiazem 120 mg p.o. q. day. 2 )glyburide 10 mg p.o. q. day. 3 )albuterol 2 puffs q.i.d. p.r.n. 4 ) k-dur 20 meq p.o. q. day. 5 )axid 150 mg p.o. q.h.s. 6 ) zoloft 50 mg p.o. q. day. 7 ) lasix20 mg p.o. q. day. 8 ) coumadin alternating 10 mg with 7.5 mg p.o.q. day.social history: significant for the patient living alone. sheoccasional has her son stay with her. she isdivorced and she has refused chronic care in the past.habits: positive for cigarettes about a 20 pack year history. noalcohol , no intravenous drugs.hospital course: 1 ) pulmonary: the patient was admitted to themedical intensive care unit on january , 1996status post a respiratory arrest thought to be secondary tohypercarbia through the combination of the patient's underlyinglung disease as well as excessive sedation. she was intubated onjanuary , 1996 and quickly extubated on may , 1996 withoutcomplications. her chest x-ray on admission was significant for amild interstitial pulmonary edema and cardiomegaly. afterextubation , the patient was weaned to bi-pap with which she wasable to maintain saturations between 86-90% while in the medicalintensive care unit. the patient was transferred to the floor onfebruary , 1996. given the patient's history of restrictive lungdisease , it was thought that it was time to have a full work-up tosearch for a possible etiologies , questioning possible obesity vs.parenchymal disease. she had an echocardiogram on november , 1996 ,which revealed an ejection fraction of 75% , mild left ventricularhypertrophy , no regional wall motion abnormalities , a top normalsized right ventricle , trace tricuspid insufficiency and asuggested pulmonary arterial pressure in the range of 36 mm ofmercury plus the estimated right atrial pressure. thisechocardiogram was performed with a bubble study and there was noobvious intra-cardiac shunt either by color doppler or salineinfusion. they were unable to exclude diastolic dysfunction giventhe presence of left ventricular hypertrophy. her chest ct onnovember , 1996 was significant for cardiomegaly and pulmonaryedema , patchy opacities in the right apex and lung bases with anodular quality of unclear etiology and a lucent lesion in theright lobe of the liver that was too small to characterize. inorder to further help sort out the etiology of her restrictive lungdisease , the patient underwent a pa gram on july , 1996 to ruleout the possibility of chronic pulmonary emboli. this studyrevealed no evidence of pulmonary emboli. she had a normalpulmonary vascular distribution , elevated right heart pressureswith pulmonary arterial pressure of 44/13 with a mean of 28 mm ofmercury , right ventricular pressure 52/2 with a mean of 20 mm ofmercury and a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 23. thepulmonary service had been consulted and it was thought that it wasdifficult to sort out exactly what was going on. it was unclearwhat the nodular lesions described on the ct represented , whetherit was inflammation or some sort of firm nodule. it was decided tofollow-up on the ct in the future and to have the patient had arepeat sleep study as well as repeat pulmonary function tests. theoverall impression was that her restrictive lung disease was mostlikely secondary to obesity. while the patient was on the floor ,we attempted to restart her on the bi-pap , however the patientresisted using both the c-pap and the bi-pap practically everynight complaining that she had an upper respiratory infection thatmade it difficult for her to wear the machine. on the evening thatshe did actually try both the c-pap and the bi-pap , she was notedto have labored breathing with the c-pap at 5 mm of mercury andfour liters nasal cannula with a pulse oximetry dropping to 81%.when she switched to bi-pap with settings of 12 mm of mercuryinspiratory and 7 mm of mercury expiratory , she was able tomaintain oxygen saturations between 88% and as high as 93% oxygensaturation. her oxygen saturations throughout hospitalizationranged between 91-93% on two liters nasal cannula during the dayand as well as 88% overnight. it was decided that the patientgiven her history would require bi-pap on discharge as well as herhome oxygen.2 ) infectious disease: the patient as noted above spiked atemperature to 101 degrees on january , 1996 while in the medicalintensive care unit and subsequently never had elevatedtemperatures nor an elevated white blood cell count. she wasstarted on clindamycin and ofloxacin intravenously and thenswitched to p.o. on february , 1996 to complete a ten day course.on january , 1996 , the patient as stated , remained afebrilethroughout her hospitalization and never had an elevated whiteblood cell count. she did complain of upper respiratory symptomsbeginning on february , 1996 described as general head fullness ,sinus tenderness and nasal congestion. she was started on afrin 2puffs b.i.d. for three days with some relief as well as robitussinand sudafed. her physical examination was notable some maxillarysinusitis and the patient was actually discharged after a brieftime on afrin nasal spray.3 ) cardiovascular: echocardiogram was performed during thisadmission and is as described above. the patient remainedhemodynamically stable throughout this admission.4 ) hematology: the patient had a history of recurrent lowerextremity deep venous thromboses. she was maintained on heparinuntil all of her procedures had been completed and was restarted oncoumadin on july , 1996. her pt and ptt were followed untilthe point that she had established a therapeutic inr. on november , 1996 , her pt and ptt were notable for a pt of 17.5 with a pttof greater than 200 and inr of 2.2. heparin was discontinued and arepeat ptt on the evening of august , 1996 revealed a pt of 18.5and a ptt of 67.6 and an inr of 2.5. she was discharged the nextday on 7.5 mg of coumadin q.h.s. of note , the patient had beenadmitted with about a 2 x 2 cm ulcer of her medial left malleoluswhich appeared to heal well with granulation and scarred by thetime she had been discharged.5 ) rheumatology: the patient as noted was admitted for evaluationof right knee pain. the patient did not complain of right painsubsequent to her discharge from the medical intensive care unit.her cultures and crystals were negative and she is to follow-up asan outpatient with the rheumatologist in their clinic.6 ) endocrine: the patient maintained stable bowel sounds onglyburide 10 mg p.o. q. day.7 ) gastrointestinal: the patient remained stable and was able totolerate a low cholesterol , low saturated fat diet and wasmaintained on axid 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. however , on the date ofdischarge , the patient was complaining of a burning sensation inher throat after drinking orange juice which tended to come and go ,but did not radiate and she was switched from axid to prilosec 20mg p.o. q. day on january , 1996.8 ) gynecology: while on the floor , the patient startedcomplaining of some vaginal spotting. she has menopausal since her40s and has had not had any recent gynecological following. it wasdecided for the patient to either follow-up with her primary carephysician or with the gyn clinic at n'ssciences memorial hospital for evaluation of this spotting for ruling out endometrialcarcinoma.9 ) neurological: the patient did not demonstrate any evidence ofdepression and was stable on zoloft.10 ) general care: the patient underwent physical therapy andoccupational therapy throughout the hospitalization. it wasthought that she would benefit greatly from inpatient pulmonaryrehabilitation or possibly weight loss reduction , however thepatient repeatedly declined pulmonary rehabilitation and weightloss reduction and felt that she would be able to manage herself athome.the patient was discharged on january , 1996 in stable conditionto home with vna services to follow-up on her blood sugars , herhome oxygen as well as her bi-pap.medications on discharge: 1 ) lasix 20 mg p.o. q. day. 2 )glyburide 10 mg p.o. q. day. 3 )procardia xl 30 mg p.o. q. day. 4 ) zoloft 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. 5 )coumadin 7.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. 6 ) ofloxacin 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. timesone day. 7 ) clindamycin 200 mg p.o. q. 6h. times one day. 8 )prilosec 20 mg p.o. q. day. 9 ) potassium chloride slow release 20meq p.o. q. day. 10 ) tylenol 650 mg p.o. q. 4-6h. p.r.n. pain.11 ) maalox 50 mg p.o. q. 6h. p.r.n. indigestion. 12 ) albuterolinhaler 2 puffs inhaled q.i.d. p.r.n. wheezing. 13 ) afrin 2 puffsb.i.d. times three days.follow-up: the patient is to follow-up with dr. isidro ernesto laurila onnovember , 1996. she also had an appointment on march , 1996 with the gyn clinic. pulmonary follow-up is as follows:on february , 1996 at 9:00 am , she is to have a repeat ct tofollow-up the nodularities found on the most recent ct. onfebruary , 1996 at 10:30 am , she is to have a pulmonary functiontest and to follow-up at 11:30 am with the pulmonary clinic. sheis to call rheumatology at her convenience.the patient was to proceed with bi-pap , however due to theneed for medical assistance , she may not receive it for another twoweeks and is to continue with her home oxygen.dictated by: clarence j. tenbusch , m.d. wn42attending: antione wilson granville cihon , m.d. ke3  bz037/5072batch: 31919 index no. xqiak00r8d d: 2/2/96t: 8/10/96cc: 1. jeremiah c. leandro zarrella , m.d. pd902. vincenzo isadore , m.d. holu si nokeun and center clinic in port chat angelesni[report_end]