950131833 | cho | 26675684 | | 4654588 | 3/28/2005 12:00:00 am | renal failure | signed | dis | admission date: 10/1/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/15/2005attending: uzun , carmelo mdadmitting diagnoses:1. hypoxia.2. acute renal failure.3. congestive heart failure.discharge diagnoses:1. hypoxia.2. acute renal failure.3. congestive heart failure.chief complaint:shortness of breath , ____ ms.history of present illness:the patient is a 61-year-old female with end-stage renal disease ,not yet on hemodialysis; hypertension; insulin-dependent diabetesmellitus , who is legally blind; hypothyroidism. the patient ofnote had a recent av fistula placed. the patient was admitted tothe burg memorial hospital initially on 3/9/04 through5/14/05 for hypoglycemic arrest , during at which time she wasresuscitated with full mental recovery. the patient wassubsequently discharged to the carewin ,and was readmitted on 9/16/05 through 10/10/05 for left toeulceration , which required operating room debridement , andintravenous antibiotics , including vancomycin , levofloxacin andflagyl. the patient was subsequently transitioned to p.o.clindamycin at the time of discharge , and discharged back to themevent healthcare the patient subsequentlypresented on 9/30/05 per the report of the cthe patient was noted to have intermittent confusion and hypoxiasto 85% on room air on the morning of admission. the patient wassent to the medar emnew litvange troyettedea region general hospital emergency room where she wasfound to be normotensive at 138/83 , with an o2 saturation of 88%on room air , augmented to 100% on nonrebreather. physicalexamination at the time of admission was remarkable for bilateralcrackles , two-thirds of the way up bilaterally. chest isremarkable for vascular congestion , question of right lower lobeinfiltrate. of note , laboratory values on admission wereremarkable for bun of 18 , and the creatinine up of 54 , elevatedfrom prior creatinine reading on 10/10/05 of 2.7. her brainnatriuretic peptide on admission was measured at 2200. thepatient was subsequently admitted to general medical serviceunder the attending physician , dr. clarence stephan cler , for furtherevaluation and management.past medical history:remarkable for end-stage renal disease. the patient with theright av fistula in place , not yet on hemodialysis , hypertension ,and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. the patient is legallyblind , the patient with hypothyroidism , the patient with recentright toe ulceration , requiring operating room debridement; thepatient with a history of hypoglycemia.medications on admission:include aspirin , atenolol , calcitriol , phoslo , calcium carbonate ,colace , heparin , nph , regular insulin sliding scale ,levothyroxine , oxycodone p.r.n. , timolol , amlodipine , dilantin ,protonix , clindamycin , cozaar , and lasix.allergies on admission:include penicillin and metolazone.social history:not significant. the patient was previously residing at thenstrop roll memorial medical centerlaboratory data:full laboratory panel on admission includes sodium of 133 ,potassium of 5.4 , chloride of 103 , bicarbonate of 21 , bun of 80 ,elevated from 53 of several days prior; creatinine of 5.4 ,elevated from 2.7 of several days prior; glucose of 43; whitecount of 10.5; hematocrit of 25.4 , down from 28.9 of several daysprior; platelets of 315 , 000; inr of 1.5. cardiac enzymes werenegative for any evidence of coronary insufficiency. chest filmas mentioned previously demonstrated prominent bibasilarpulmonary vasculature , mild cardiomegaly , and question of rightlower lobe infiltrate. ekg was unremarkable.hospital course by systems:1. renal: the patient presented with acute and chronic renalinsufficiency. prior creatinine measured at 2-3. at the time ofadmission , the creatinine was 5.4. peak creatinine was measuredat 6.0. the patient was seen by the renal consult service forfurther evaluation of his acute renal failure. the patient wasfelt to have gadolinium-induced nephropathy given her priorchronic renal insufficiency and recent mra , which had beenobtained to evaluate for peripheral vascular disease. over thetime of admission , the patient was felt to be significantlyvolume overloaded secondary to this acute renal failure , withpatient's weight up approximately 50 pounds from her baselinevalue , and given her chest x-ray consistent with acute pulmonarycongestion , the patient was started on a lasix drip with diurilsupport with significant improvement in her volume status. thepatient diuresed significantly over the time of admission.admission weight was recorded at 129.9 kg. at the time ofdischarge , the patient had diuresed down to a dry weight of 95.6kg , felt to be her dry weight. the patient was subsequentlyrestarted on her outpatient dose of lasix 40 mg p.o. daily.recommend further outpatient titration and lasix dosing asrequired to maintain her ins and outs at approximately even.additionally , the patient on a fluid-restricted diet of 2.5liters per day. the patient to follow up with her outpatientnephrologist at the sir medical center as per the dischargeinstructions.2. cardiovascular: the patient with significant volume overloadsecondary to acute renal failure. the patient was diuresed ofthe hospital course as previously described. recommendoutpatient evaluation as required.3. pulmonary: the patient with hypoxia on admission secondaryto acute pulmonary congestion. with significant diuresis , thepatient's hypoxia resolved. at the time of discharge , thepatient was on room air with o2 saturation greater than 92%. ofnote , the patient with occasional desaturation occurring at nightwhile sleeping , felt to be secondary to peripheral obstructivesleep apnea. recommend further outpatient evaluation andsupplemental oxygenation as required at night.4. heme: the patient with significant anemia secondary to bothiron deficiency and chronic renal insufficiency. the patient wasmaintained on epogen and iron supplementation. additionally ,given a significant bilateral lower extremity edema on admissionwith hypoxia , concern for lower extremity deep venous thrombosis.lower extremity noninvasive ultrasound is negative for anyevidence of clot.5. endocrine: the patient with significant hypothyroidism ,maintained on levoxyl. recommend outpatient evaluation asrequired. additionally , the patient with a history ofinsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , maintained on nph b.i.d.with regular insulin sliding scale supplementation. at the timeof discharge , the patient's nph was at 12 units subcutaneousb.i.d. with regular insulin sliding scale supplementation q.a.c.at bedtime. recommend titration as required to an a1c less than7.5. of note , the patient with significant hypoglycemia in thepast , particularly in the setting of infection or low p.o.intake , so we would recommend caution.6. prophylaxis: the patient was on subcutaneous heparin 5000units t.i.d. for dvt prophylaxis in addition to protonix 40 mg.7. musculoskeletal: recommend physical therapy rehabilitationas tolerated.8. code status: the patient adamantly dnr/dni per her ownwishes.9. infectious disease: the patient noted to have persistentdiarrhea with minor abdominal pain at the time of admission. c.diff colitis was found to be positive. the patient was thereforetreated with two-week course of p.o. flagyl 500 mg q.8h. x14days , and given concern initially for right lower lobe pneumonia ,the patient was treated with a 14-course of levofloxacin ,titrated to her renal function. at the time of discharge , thepatient was afebrile. vital signs were stable. the patient wastolerating food and physical therapy at baseline level. thepatient to be transferred back to the du hospital for further physical therapy rehabilitation.follow up:the patient to follow up with her primary care physician , dr.goodpaster at the snho freoaknafre clinic. in addition , the patient isscheduled for follow-up appointment with thhc nephrology , dr.jesus linardi , scheduled for 10/3/05 at 11 a.m.escription document: 0-4089281 emsdictated by: zech , elliotattending: bedar , maxdictation id 1190970d: 8/29/05t: 8/29/05