record date: 2092-10-15edvisit^03689964^valenzuela, brian^10/15/92^benson, kaileei saw this patient in conjunction with dr. otis. i confirmthat i have interviewed and examined the patient, reviewed theresident's documentation on the patient's chart, and discussedthe evaluation, plan of care, and disposition with the patient.chief complaint:  a 55-year-old male with vomiting.history of present illness:  the patient with end-stage multiplesclerosis as well as neurogenic bladder and chronic indwellingfoley who presents from the nursing home after 4 episodes ofvomiting since 10:00 a.m.  he has had also progressive abdominaldistention, he reports over the last 3-4 weeks.  nursing notealso reports decreased urine output for the last 2 days.  he hada kub done at the referring facility that demonstrated a questionof a small bowel obstruction but this film was not sent with him. he also had a fever today per report.  the patient denies anyabdominal pain, shortness of breath, chest pain, or othercomplaints.  he does have a history of an ileus and prioradmissions for urosepsis with levofloxacin resistant e. coli.  hereports a mild cough.past medical history:  remarkable for hypertension, multiplesclerosis, anemia, decubitus ulcers, neurogenic bladder, andurethral strictures.past surgical history:  he is status post urethral stenting.social history, family history, and review of systems are as perwritten note.medications:  prozac, actonel, ferrous sulfate, aspirin,multivitamins, lisinopril, lipitor, and prilosec.allergies:  none.physical examination:  the patient is awake and alert, generallychronically ill appearing, quite pleasant.  vital signs arewithin normal limits as documented except for an elevated pulserate of 120 beats per minute, respiratory rate of 24, room airsaturations of 93% and a temperature of 99.2.  for full physicalexam findings, please see the resident's written note. specifically, heent exam is atraumatic.  there is a 1-cm ulcer onroof of his mouth.  he has synechiae of his pupils that are 2 mmand nonreactive.  his extraocular movements are not alignment. neck exam is normal as documented.  respiratory exam revealsscattered bronchi.  there is no chest wall tenderness. cardiovascular exam reveals tachycardia without murmur. abdominal exam is distinctly distended and slightly firm withhypoactive bowel sounds but no tenderness, no rebound orguarding.  skin is intact, warm, and dry on my exam. musculoskeletal exam is nontender with no edema or bony pointtenderness.  neurologically, the patient has increased tone inhis lower extremities and weakness of all of his extremities. his mood and affect is normal but he is dysarthric.  he isneurologically, however, appears to be at his baseline.laboratory data:  cbc and electrolytes remarkable for white bloodcount 16.2, bun and creatinine ratio of 40 and 1.0 respectively. last creatinine was 0.5.  lfts and lipase are within normallimits as documented.  inr is 1.1.imaging studies:  ekg demonstrates sinus rhythm with nonspecificst-t wave changes.  plain films of the abdomen demonstratesscattered dilated loops of small bowel but no clear obstructionconsistent with possible ileus versus early obstruction.  chestx-ray shows low lung volumes without any focal consolidation.impression:  this is a patient with abdominal distention, isquite impressive as well as a firm belly with dilated loops ofbowel on his kub as well as history of vomiting earlier thisevening.  he has had no vomiting here and does not feelnauseated, however, does not have an appetite.  he has haddecreased urine output and managed to put out a total 25 cc ofurine through his foley since 2:00 p.m. today.  presently, he wasnot tender over his bladder.  upon flushing the foley, there is alarge amount of debris.  they came out and followed by highpressure urine that had malodorous character to it.  i think thispatient likely has an ileus and urinary tract infection.  hereceived antibiotics wide spectrum including vancomycin,levofloxacin and flagyl initially followed by gentamicin givenhis prior levofloxacin resistance.primary diagnosis:  urinary tract infection.secondary diagnosis:  ileus versus sbo.the patient was admitted to the ed observation area for ctimaging, however will eventually require admission for thisproblem likely to medicine service.disposition:  admitted to ed observation unit.______________________________benson, kailee mdd: 10/15/92t: 10/15/92dictated by: benson, kaileeescription document:7-8396761 bffocus  not reviewed by attending physician 