record date: 2084-07-02internal medicine intern admission notepatient:  umstead, kennethmrn:  9544546admit date: 7/02/84 attending: vernon tothpcp:  vernon tothcontact:  valeria umstead (056) 216-7457cc:  lethargy, increasing disorientation x2 weekshpi:  mr umstead is an 87yo m with h/o alzheimer   s vs vascular dementia, vasculopathy (s/p cea, known pvd) who presents after two weeks of increased lethargy, increasing disorientation and visual hallucinations.per his wife who acts as his primary caretaker, mr umstead was in his usoh until about two weeks ago, when she began noticing increased lethargy and confusion.  he developed gait instability and began confusing family members with each other, and being confused about whether the house he was in was his own.  this increased in severity over the past 3-4 days.  he complains of some weakness in his left leg but otherwise has had no other focal motor or sensory deficits. he has had no recent fevers, chills, sob, sudden motor or sensory loss.   no new incontinence.this history was limited by patient   s inability to cooperate.ed course:  tox screen and metabolic workup in ed were both negative. cxr and u/a performed showing no infectious processes.  head ct was performed showing no change from prior, though there was a small increase in the size of the lateral ventricles possibly suggestive of normal pressure hydrocephalus.  lp was negative.  pt was admitted to internal medicine for further workup of recent change in mental status and neuro/psych consult.medical historycerebellar stroke: 1/82.  coumadin d/c'd 8/82, aggrenox started. felt better risk/benefit profile pvds/p l cea: 1/81colonic polypshiatal hernia duodenal ulcerhypertension hyperlipidemiabph diabetes mellitus with peripheral neuropathy urethral stricture: sees dr valledementia: followed by dr umali. felt mixed vascular and ad dementia. on ach inhibitor. started namenda 11/82.bundle branch block: ekg 7/82 nsr with first degree a-v block and lbbb with lad. ekg 10/83 normal sinus rhythm with first-degree av block and occasional blocked apc. there is a nonspecific intraventricular conduction delay with a borderline superior axis. there are nonspecific st and t-wave changes.renal insufficiency, baseline creatinine 1.6-2.2depression vitamin d deficiency		medications on admission atenolol 25mg po qd avandia (rosiglitazone) 2mg po bid aricept (donepezil hcl) 10 mg po qd aggrenox (aspirin + dipyridamole) 1 capsule po bid lipitor 20 mg po qd namenda (memantine) 10 mg po bid fish oil capsule (omega-3-fatty acids) 1000 mg po bid allergies:  ace inhibitors - cough, escitalopram - gi intolerance family history: significant family history for dm. social history: lives with wife who is primary caretaker. nonsmoker, no etoh per report.physical examvs: t=97.2, hr=80, bp=174/76, rr=20, 94% on ragen: wawn, nad, lying in bed speaking in complete sentences, tangential thoughtsheent: nc/at.  perrla, arcus senilis. eomi, no nystagmus. nl oropharynx, mmm. cv: rrr, no m/r/gchest: ctababd: obese, soft, nt nd. +nl bsext: no edema, warm, well perfusedneuro: aaox2 (person, place). tangential/circumstantial speech pattern. cn ii-xii intact. motor strength 5/5 bue, 5/5 rle, 4/5 on l knee extension, otherwise 5/5 on lle.  sensory intact bue/ble. coordination wnl on finger-to-nose bilat.  gait not assessed. labsna 144, k 4.1, cl 106, co2 27.4, ca 9.4, po4 2.0, mg 1.7, bun 23, cr 1.7, gluc 124tox panel negativecsf sugar 79, tp 59, colorless, clear, no xanthochromia, 1rbc, no wbc, otherwise neg.wbc 7.1, hct 39.9, plt 192, rdw 14.4, mcv 89u/a negativeradiologymri brain (7/02/84)no acute infarction.chronic right basal ganglia and bilateral cerebellar infarctions, stable from prior.mild progression of periventricular and deep white matter t2  hyperintensity which is nonspecific, likely relating to progression of small vessel ischemic disease.interval enlargement of ventricles and sulci consistent with progression of cortical volume loss.cxr (7/02/84):  wnlct brain (7/02/84)no evidence of an acute intracranial process.mildly increased prominence of the lateral ventricles with increased periventricular hypoattenuation.  although this likely represents microangiopathic changes with commensurate ventricular prominence, consider normal pressure hydrocephalus in the correct clinical setting.ekg:  sinus rhythm, 1st degree av block with atrial bigemeny. left axis deviation and lvh by r in avl >11.assessment & plan87yo m with h/o alzheimer   s vs vascular dementia, vasculopathic (carotid stenosis s/p cea, pvd) who presents with two weeks of increasing lethargy, disorientation, gait instability and visual hallucinations.  the etiology of this downturn remains unclear.  given his normal temperature, normal cxr and normal u/a, an infectious etiology is unlikely.  concern for a stroke-related etiology, either embolic or lacunar, is unlikely given ct and mri results.  however, microembolic disease may be a possibility.  given the relatively rapid onset of symptoms, worsening alzheimer   s dementia is less likely, though often onset of alzheimer   s may appear to have a rapid onset simply because a threshold of recognition by family members has been reached while the process itself was in fact more protracted.  as suggested in the ct results, normal pressure hydrocephalus may be a possibility, though the lack of incontinence makes this less likely. lp performed in the ed was diagnostic and not therapeutic for nph.  one further diagnosis to consider would be an encephalopathic process, perhaps due to hypertension.a more psychiatric etiology should also be considered in this patient.  depression can often manifest itself with lethargy and disorientation, especially in the elderly. however, it is difficult to adequately assess this in the absence of a caretaker, as mr umstead is currently difficult to direct with questioning.dementia:  cxr, u/a negative. ct/mri negative for acute embolic events.  most likely etiologies are worsening vascular vs alzheimer   s dementia.will d/w attendingconsider psychiatric consultcontinue namenda for presumed alzheimer   swill consult neuro for management of alzheimer   s and further workup of possible nphh/o cerebellar stroke: currently on aggrenox (not on coumadin due to fall risk), will continue.niddm: will start risshyperlipidemia: continue lipitor 20mg po qdhtn: metoprololprophylaxis: already on aggrenox for embolic ppx.code status: will need to discuss with wife tomorrow.jacob v ure, mdpager # 02664