record date: 2062-09-25internal medicine associatescape coral hospitalpersonal data and overall health   the patient is a 53-year-old white male, who presents for followup of multiple medical problems.major problemsdiabetes mellitusvery noncompliant for many years.  previously had blood sugars as high as 400 to 600 and would not take any medications.  diabetes complicated by peripheral neuropathy, which is severe; gastroparesis, which has been severe; recurrent skin abscesses; and probable coronary artery disease.hypertensionthis has been also severe for many years and noncompliance is a significant issue.  now complicated also by significant orthostatic hypotension presumably on the basis of autonomic insufficiency.coronary artery diseasehe is status post recent non q wave mi with elevated troponins presenting with congestive heart failure and chest pain in the setting of an elevated creatinine.chronic renal insufficiencycreatinine approximately 3.pyelonephritis history ofanemiachronic.    extensive workup negative.sinus tachycardiachronic.  this has been present for many years.  etiology unclear.  recent stress test does not show evidence of more complicated arrhythmia.  cardiac ultrasound was done on his recent admission, and he has an ejection fraction of 63% with no significant valvular disease.  he has symmetric left ventricular hypertrophy.migraine headache history ofhepatitis cchronic.allergiesno known allergies   change in therapies and renewalssenna 2 teaspoons  bidaspirin 325 mg  qdhydralazine 25 mg  tidimdur 30 mg  qdlasix 20 mg  qdnexium 20 mg  qdnorvasc 5 mg  bidneurontin 100 mg  tidlabetalol hcl 100 mg  bidlosartan 25 mg  qderythromycin 250 mg  tidepogen 3000 units sq qwkcolace 100 mg  bidfamily history   notable for diabetes, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia.social history   he was previously the head statistical programmer for electronic data systems for many years and now disabled.  he is married and has a daughter.  cigarettes, none times years.  alcohol, previously heavy.  there was a history of previous illicit drug use.review of systems   since he has been home, he has done reasonably well though he has noted increasing leg edema bilaterally with a significant weight gain.  he denies chest pain or palpitations.  he denies shortness of breath.  he has not been vomiting, and he actually self-discontinued both oxycontin and methadone because he felt that they did not make him feel well.physical examinationpulse   86 per minuteblood pressure 150/90    today, 150/90 then 144/86weight   185 poundsheent   eyes, ears, nose, and pharynx are normal, but dentition is poorneck   no bruitsnodes   none palpablechest   lungs, clearcor   regular rate and rhythm without murmurabdomen   benignextrem   with 3+ massive edemaneuro   abnormal gait due to peripheral neuropathyassessment and plan   leg edema is uncertainly due to his vasodilators.  we will discontinue hydralazine and norvasc.  he has already stopped his oxycontin and methadone.  we will see him back in approximately two weeks to follow up on his blood pressure.  he will have routine laboratory studies done today.note transcribed by outside service   transcription errors may be present.signed electronically by patrick i yeates md on oct 1, 2062     