record #126984066901311 | msh | 21355744 | | 0256442 | 10/16/2006 12:00:00 am | htn emergency | signed | dis | admission date: 11/21/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/22/2006attending: warnecke , blair e.service: kata oprincipal diagnosis: pneumonia.list of other problems/diagnoses: altered mental status ,seizure , hypertensive emergency , end-stage renal disease andhepatitis c.history of present illness: the patient is a 53-year-old manwith type 1 diabetes , end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis ,history of polysubstance abuse and hepatitis c who was in hisusual state of health until hemodialysis on 6/10/06 , when he wasnoted to be lethargic after hemodialysis. he came to theemergency room where he also complained of headache and chestpain. he was noted to have blood pressure of 202/91 and lateralst depression on ekg and a mild troponin leak. he was givennitroglycerin paste , labetolol 10 mg iv with resolution of theheadache , chest pain and decrease of the blood pressure into the160s. on chest x-ray , he was also noted to have bilateral lowerlobe pneumonia. the patient remained lethargic. the head ct wasnegative. of note , the patient has a recent admission to thea hospital with hypoglycemia , pneumonia and c. difficilecolitis for which he is completing a course of vancomycin ,levaquin and flagyl. the patient lives in a nursing home. therecords show that his baseline blood pressure is 160-180systolic. he has had hypertension to the 200s for a week priorto admission.past medical history: notable for end-stage renal disease onhemodialysis , type 1 diabetes for 30 years , poorly-controlledhypertension , hepatitis b and c with previous treatment withinterferon , possible ethanol-related liver disease , asthma ,peptic ulcer disease and peripheral vascular disease with historyof toe amputation.social history: the patient lives alone , although recently hehas been living in a nursing home. he is separated from his wifeand children who live out of state. he is a former smoker andalcohol abuser. he has a history of heroin use and cocaine usebut currently not abusing either.allergies: the patient is noted to have an allergy to aspirinwith the reaction being epistaxis , although this is not a trueallergy.physical examination: on admission , notable findings were analtered mental status. the patient was somnolent and confusedbut was without other significant physical findings.hospital course:1. cardiovascular: the patient was admitted with hypertensiveemergency with mild troponin leak likely secondary to demandischemia. labetolol 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. was added to hisantihypertensive regimen this admission and the patient's bloodpressure was reasonably well controlled throughout the admission.2. infectious disease: the patient is being empirically treatedfor likely cavitary pneumonia that was observed upon chest ct.the patient has clinically improved on ciprofloxacin 500 mg p.o.q.d. and will be discharged on a 7-day course of the same. thepatient also has a history of c. difficile colitis and has beentreated with flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. during this admission andwas discharged on a 14-day course of the same. blood culturesduring this admission have been negative to date. the patientwas ppd negative and induced sputum was negative by acid fasttests for evidence of tuberculosis.3. gi: the patient complained of left lower quadrant pain priorto dialysis on 6/22 and some involuntary guarding was apparentlyappreciated. ct of the abdomen ruled outan acute abdominal process and the patient has been withoutabdominal pain throughout the rest of the hospitalization. thepatient's laboratory studies are notable for an elevated alkaline phosphatasewith unclear etiology. the patient has no murphysign or other signs of cholecystitis that could be appreciated.4. neurology: the patient presented with altered mental statuson admission. he was confused and somnolent. within 2 days of admission , hewas much improved and was alert and oriented x3.the altered mental status was most likely secondary to pneumonia.the patient reportedly had a tonic-clonic seizure inhemodialysis on 8/8/06. neurology was consulted and thoughtthis was most likely secondary to fluid , electrolytes shifts indialysis. the patient had both eeg and brain mri , which werenormal during this admission.5. renal. the patient has end-stage renal disease onhemodialysis and dialysis was continued monday , wednesday andfriday according to his usual schedule.6. endocrine. the patient is a brittle type 1 diabetic andearly in his hospital course , he had frequent episode ofhypoglycemia which responded to an amp of d50. the patient'sinsulin regimen at the time of discharge , on which his sugars werereasonably well controlled without episodes of hypoglycemia , waslantus 4 units q.a.m. lantus 4 units q.p.m. with novolog 3 unitswith breakfast and 3 units with lunch and novolog 2 units withdinner and sliding scale novalog used only when fingersticks weregreater than 400.7. pulmonology the patient has left lower lobe cavitarylesion observed on chest ct that may be malignant , although itmost likely represented pneumonia. he needs to follow up chestct in 6-8 weeks to confirm if this lesion was pneumonia and thatit has completely resolved.the patient had a history of copd/asthma and continued on advair during thisadmission.at the time of discharge , the patient was afebrile with heart ratein the 90s , systolic pressure ranging from 140-160/60-80 andsaturating 97% to 100% on room air.discharge medications: include aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. , lipitor80 mg p.o. q.d. , ciprofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.24h. for a 7-daycourse after discharge , esomeprazole 20 mg p.o. q.d. , advairdiskus 100/50 mcg 1 puff in inh b.i.d. , folic acid 1 mg p.o.q.d. , novolog 3 units subcu with breakfast , novolog 3 units subcuwith lunch , novolog 2 units subcu with dinner , lantus 4 unitssubcu q.a.m. , lantus 4 units subcu q.p.m. and novolog slidingscale if the fingersticks greater than 400 , labetolol 200 mg p.o.b.i.d. , lisinopril 80 mg p.o. q.d. , flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. for14 days following discharge , nephrocaps 1 tab p.o. q.d. ,nifedipine xl 30 mg p.o. q.d. and sevelamer 2.4 g p.o. t.i.d.discharge instructions: regarding followup tests that are neededafter discharge , the patient should schedule to have a ct of thechest 6-8 weeks following discharge to rule out malignancy in theleft lower lobe. the patient should continue on regular monday ,wednesday , friday dialysis according to his usual regimen. the patient shouldcomplete the 7 day course of ciprofloxacin that was prescribed. the patientshould complete the 14 day course of flagyl as prescribed. thepatient should follow up with his primary care physician within 2days of discharge. the patient should be discharged to skillednursing facility from which he was admitted.escription document: 0-1368800 bffocusdictated by: schamel , luisattending: tabone , sydneydictation id 9928951d: 4/18/06t: 4/18/06[report_end]