admission date :2015-06-04discharge date :2015-06-08service :ccuhistory of the present illness :the patient is a 57 - year-old female with a history of hypertension and hypercholesterolemia but no prior coronary artery disease history who presented with chest pain .the patient reports the pain began at 4:00 p.m. on the day of admission .she reports that it had essentially started earlier in the day with some gerd-like symptoms .she had taken maalox but had no relief with this .the pain was intermittent through the day and then at 4:00 p.m. increased and was also associated with nausea and diaphoresis .she reports that the pain shot through her back .the patient has never had these symptoms in the past .she arrived in the emergency room at 8:00 p.m.at that time , the pain was unremitting .in the emergency room , the patient was given lopressor , nitroglycerin , and aspirin .a tp3a inhibitor was not given for concern for dissection .the patient was found to have 5057 e. sixth blvd. elevations in i , avl , and v1 through v2 and st depressions in ii , iii , and avf .the patient was taken emergently to the cardiac catheterization laboratory .hospital course :1. coronary artery disease : the patient was taken to cardiac catheterization where she was found to have two vessel disease .the proximal lad was found to have a 90% lesion with a septal branch with a 95% stenosis and a diagonal branch with 99% stenosis .the patient had twin lad stents to the lad diagonal and lad septal branches with taxus stents .this restored flow appropriately .the patient also had proximal rca lesion of 80% and a mid rca lesion of 80-90% which were not intervened upon .the patient was given an aspirin and plavix and in addition started on a beta elmore , maxine ace inhibitor , and these were titrated up as her blood pressure tolerated .given the fact that the patient had issues with muscle cramping with atorvastatin in the past , she was started on pravastatin which should give less of these side effects .the patient will follow-up with cardiology in one months time for further management of her coronary artery disease and further evaluation of her remaining rca lesions .2. pump : the patient had an echocardiogram to assess her lv function .she was found to have an ejection fraction of 30-35% as well as an akinetic apex and apical mid and septal akinesis .given the fact that the patient had significant apical akinesis , she was started on heparin with a transition to coumadin for anticoagulation for stroke prevention in the setting of apical akinesis .on discharge , the patient was given lovenox injections which should be continued until the patient reaches a therapeutic dose of coumadin .3. rhythm : the patient was monitored on telemetry throughout her hospitalization with no significant events .the patient had an ep evaluation and will be followed-up by dr. welch .14-087 , the patient had a signal-averaged ekg .she will follow-up with dr. welch with an echocardiogram on 2015-07-24 in a meeting to discuss risk stratification for sudden cardiac death and possible icd placement .4. neurology : the patient complained of left lower extremity weakness with ambulation two days after her cardiac catheterization .the patient had no evidence for weakness on examination with good proximal and distal strength in the lower extremities as well as intact sensation .the patient worked with physical therapy and was able to ambulate without difficulty .she was also able to ascend stairs without difficulty .the patient was already on an aspirin and plavix should this represent a small stroke .however , there was no evidence for neurologic deficit on examination and this will be followed-up by her primary care physician .5. hematology : the patient was discharged on coumadin for apical akinesis and stroke risk .this will be further monitored by her primary care physician , dr. banks , who will adjust her coumadin dose .