475112125 | ith | 07989679 | | 396960 | 1/20/1998 12:00:00 am | status post myocardial infarction | signed | dis | admission date: 6/7/1998 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/2/1998diagnoses: 1. myocardial infarction.2. herpes zoster.brief history: the patient is an 80-year-old man with a historyof coronary artery disease , who was transferred toza valley hospital two days following an acute myocardialinfarction , for post myocardial infarction management. the patienthas known coronary artery disease , and is status post myocardialinfarction in 1998. at this time he underwent a two-vessel cabgwith a saphenous vein graft to the rca and to the lad. since then ,he claims that he has done very well with rare angina( approximately two times a year ) which responds well to sublingualnitroglycerin.he underwent an exercise treadmill test in 1997 , that showedinferolateral st depressions with exercise , that were considerednon-diagnostic , secondary to lvh and some resting ekgabnormalities.on august , the patient noted 10 out of 10 chest pain while walkingwith his family. he took sublingual nitroglycerin times three withno relief. he was taken to tioncollgos memorial hospital where an ekgshowed st depressions in leads v2 through v4 , and t wave flatteningin v1 and v5. he also had t wave inversions in v2 through v4. thepatient was treated with intravenous heparin , intravenousnitroglycerin , and beta blockers. he remained pain free after thistreatment. he eventually developed a q wave in v1. during hishospitalization at frontnor valley medical center , the patient was noted to havean 11 beat run of v-tach on august , and was started on a lidocainedrip. the lidocaine drip was stopped on september , and theintravenous nitroglycerin was weaned. he was placed on nitro pasteon september , and his intravenous heparin was then stopped on january .the patient was transferred to hard hospital on januarybecause he preferred to receive his care from his primarycardiologist. he denies having any chest pain since his initialpain on the seventh. he also denies shortness of breath ,orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , swelling , nausea ,vomiting , or diaphoresis. he has been tolerating a regular diet.past medical history: 1. coronary artery disease status post miin 1998 , and two-vessel cabg in 1998.2. exercise induced atrial fibrillationnoted in 1990 with no recurrence.3. prostate carcinoma status postprostatectomy in 1986.4. malaria in 1944.medications: enteric coated aspirin 325 mg q.d. , atenolol 25 mgq.d. , nitro paste started at the outside hospital.allergies: no known drug allergies.social history: the patient was recently widowed approximatelytwo months ago , and has been grieving. he isclose with his daughter. he denies any use of tobacco or alcohol.cardiac risk factors: no tobacco , no hypertension , no familyhistory of significant cardiac disease , andno known history of hypercholesterolemia.physical examination: he was a pleasant elderly man in no acutedistress , who was sitting up in bed. vitalsigns: the patient was afebrile with blood pressure 115/60. heartrate was 67. respiration was 18. room air saturation was 94%.heent exam showed the patient to be anicteric , with intactextraocular movements , and moist mucus membranes. the neck wassupple with jugular venous pressure noted , approximately 8centimeters. the chest was clear to auscultation bilaterally withno rales or wheezes.the coronary exam showed regular rate and rhythm , with a 1/6midsystolic murmur at the left sternal border , and no s3.the abdominal examination showed a flat abdomen with active bowelsounds , and a well-healed midline low abdominal scar consistentwith his prior prostatectomy. no masses or hepatosplenomegaly werenoted.the extremity exam showed no edema , with 2+ femoral and posteriortibial pulses bilaterally , and 1+ dorsalis pedis pulsesbilaterally.on neurologic exam , the patient was alert and oriented times threewith cranial nerves iii through xii intact and symmetric. themotor examination was 5/5 throughout , with 1+ deep tendon reflexesand downgoing toes bilaterally.laboratories at the outside hospital: cpk at admission was 2611 ,with an mb fraction of 260.sodium 139 , potassium 4.9 , chloride 100 , co2 30 , bun 20 , creatinine1.0 , glucose 123. the white blood cell count was 8.4 , with ahematocrit of 40 , and platelets of 160. ldh is 162. ast is 26.the ekg showed normal sinus rhythm , with normal intervals. theprior st depressions had resolved , and there were q waves in v1 andv2. the t waves were flattened in v5 and v6.hospital course: cardiac: the patient remained off of his heparindrip and on his nitro paste , and had no furtherepisodes of chest pain or shortness of breath. he underwent anechocardiogram , which revealed an ejection fraction of 45 to 50% ,and posterior/lateral hypokinesis in the left ventricle. therewere no valvular abnormalities. because the patient had no furtherepisodes of chest pain , he did not undergo further evaluation , andwas discharged home. the plan is for him to undergo anotherexercise test in approximately 3 to 4 weeks.id: the patient developed a temperature of 101.1 on his first dayof admission. he presented with a foley catheter in place , whichwas removed. a urinalysis and culture were negative. bloodcultures were drawn and were negative , and a chest x-ray was normalas well.on hospital day number three , the patient was noted to have anon-pruritic , non-painful , erythematous rash on the back of hislower right buttock and the back of his right leg. the patientclaimed that this rash was completely asymptomatic , and he wouldnot know about it if no one had pointed it out.on hospital day number four , it was noted that this rash had filledup a dermatomal pattern on the back of his right leg , and it wasfelt that this most likely represented an acute outbreak of herpeszoster. the patient was not treated specifically for herpes , giventhat he was asymptomatic , and we did not have any proven diagnosis.however , we were confident enough of this that we felt that itwould explain his low grade temperatures.psych: the patient spoke openly about his sadness following theloss of his wife , two months ago. he was seen by social services ,as well as by the souzion hospital , who thought that the patientwas appropriately grieving , and appropriately sad. it was feltthat at the time of discharge , that the patient had proper socialsupport at home , and was properly responding to the death of hiswife. it was therefore felt that he did not need any acutepsychiatric evaluation.disposition: the patient was discharged home , in stable conditionon hospital day four. he will follow-up with hiscardiologist , dr. semprini , in approximately 5 days. he will be seenby the visiting nurses association , approximately two times a week ,to check both his blood pressure and cardiac status , as well tohelp insure that he is not developing a more severe depression.discharge medications: the discharge medications include atenolol25 mg p.o. q. a.m. and 12.5 mg p.o. q.p.m. , enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , lisinopril 2.5 mgp.o. q. evening , and pravachol 10 mg p.o. q. h.s.the patient had been tolerating this regiment of medications at thetime of discharge.dictated by: dwain biondolillo , m.d. tt96attending: von sifford , m.d. kk10rt312/8223batch: 29186 index no. sckjqb9823 d: 2/13/98t: 11/5/98