record #245039690068283 | rmmc | 73124087 | | 6722782 | 8/3/2005 12:00:00 am | cellulitis | signed | dis | admission date: 7/7/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/18/2005attending: muczynski , cody m.d.discharge diagnosis:prepatellar bursitis versus prepatellar cellulitis with bursitis.secondary diagnoses:peripheral vascular disease , diabetes , chronic renalinsufficiency , cad , and history of sepsis from right lowerextremity cellulitis in the past.chief complaint:right lower extremity edema and pain in right knee.brief history of present illness:this is a 68-year-old male with severe pvd , diabetes mellitus ,chronic kidney insufficiency , presents with increased right lowerextremity edema and pain progressing over four days. the patientwas recently admitted to an outside hospital for questionableviral gastroenteritis and discharged four days ago. since thelast admission , he was noted to have increased right lowerextremity pain and erythema , was sent home on levofloxacin as anoutpatient for presumed cellulitis. actually , despite being onlevofloxacin , right lower extremity edema and pain increased overfour days and became more painful to walk. the patient hadsubjective fevers , but none documented on record. the patientwith no severe pain over the right patellar. it hurts to flexand/or bend the knee. baseline right lower extremity is now muchworse than it was prior. the patient was without pain in calf orthigh. there is no shortness of breath or chest pain. wifeprovides daily diabetic foot care , and he had recurrentcellulitis of the right lower extremity in the past , but none inthe past year. no history of trauma. in the ed the patient withsmall right knee effusion was tapped by ortho and fluid sent tolab , it was bloody without any other growth at that time. thepatient was also given vancomycin in the ed prior to admission.past medical history:includes pvd , peripheral vascular disease , diabetic neuropathy ,diabetes mellitus type ii , chronic renal insufficiency , cadstatus post cabg , history of gi bleed in the past , history ofsepsis from right lower extremity cellulitis in the past , statuspost right femoral-peroneal bypass.allergies:no known drug allergies.medications on admission:carbamazepine 100 mg b.i.d. , novolog 5 mg q. a.c. , lipitor 80 mgonce a day , lopressor 25 mg b.i.d. , avandia 8 mg once a day ,prilosec 20 mg once a day , and nph insulin 50 mg subcu b.i.d.social history:he lives with his wife , has adult children.family history:sister with diabetes mellitus and cad.physical examination:on admission , the patient was afebrile 97.5 , pulse of 84 ,systolic blood pressure was noted to be 137 , respiratory rate 20 ,and 95% on room air , was found to be hard of hearing , butotherwise in no apparent distress. lungs were ctab with nowheezes. cardiac exam was regular rate and rhythm. s1 and s2.no s3 or s4. jvp was difficult to assess and no audible murmurs ,had truncal obesity on abdominal exam with ventral hernia.nontender and active bowel sounds. extremities had edema twotimes the size of the left lower extremity , 20 x 10 cm patch ofpink erythematous and induration of warmth over the right knee ,exquisitely tender over the patellar with small area ofinduration over the right patella. nontender long joint lines ,small effusions , and pain with passive range of motion over thepatellar area. feet were clean without cracking , maceration , orulcers.pertinent labs on admission:creatinine of 2.3 , bun of 74 , glucose of 119 , sodium andpotassium of 136 and 4.3. white cell count was 8.7 with normaldifferential , 78% polys , hematocrit 34.1 , and platelets 298 , 000.inr was 1.0. esr was 98. uric acid was noted to be normal.synovial fluid did not show crystals and gram-stain was negative.leni's , right lower extremity did not show dvt above the rightknee.hospital course by system:1. musculoskeletal/id/rheum: this is right knee prepatellarbursitis versus cellulitis. the patient with plain film andx-ray , which did not show any large prepatellar bursal effusion.no other trauma or fracture to be seen on x-ray. the patient wasdoing well in-house , however , the erythema and pain did notrespond to iv vancomycin and p.o. levofloxacin at renal dosing ,and was thought by rheumatology who graciously consulted on thispatient to have a likely prepatellar bursitis. it is alsopossible this patient had a cellulitis overlying the prepatellararea , but there is no evidence of joint infection. tap on4/15/05 of the prepatellar bursal fluid showed no crystals , nopolynuclear cells , and no organisms were seen. given this ,again , prepatellar bursitis is the primary diagnosis and the paindid slowly resolve while inhouse. the patient was able to bendthe knee and do weightbearing , although with pain prior todischarge without any evidence of systemic infection or sepsis.blood cultures on admission were no growth. prior to discharge ,rheumatology suggested starting colchicine 0.6 mg b.i.d. for twodays followed by 0.6 mg daily for two days , followed by everyother day 0.6 mg for one week. follow up with wamai hospitalas an outpatient , to follow up prepatellar bursitis and to checkuric acid , although normal on admission at this time. thepatient was stable without any signs of joint infection orspreading fascial infection or worsening cellulitis. thepatient will also be started on keflex despite the fact that hedid not respond to antibiotics , and this is likely a prepatellarbursitis. in case , it is small component of cellulitis , thepatient will be kept on 10 days of p.o. keflex at renal dose 500mg b.i.d. as an outpatient and will be followed by way oa hospital in the future.2. diabetes mellitus: the patient was initially not placed onhome nph 50 mg b.i.d. and required increased novolog slidingscale to 10 standing q.a.c. plus sliding scale. however , afteraddition of 50 mg b.i.d. , nph as per patient's home dose , thepatient's blood sugars ranged from 90s to 180s , which is farimproved from prior sugars in the 300s on admission. the patientwill continue on home dose nph insulin with a novolog slidingscale. also will continue oral avandia.3. cardiovascular: there were no active issues on thisadmission.4. pain: the patient had approximately two to three times 25 mgof oxycodone p.r.n. for pain. this will be continued for severaldays as needed for pain on discharge.5. vascular: the patient with full leni did not show anythrombus in the right lower extremity on leni.6. renal: the patient with chronic renal insufficiency , whichlooks like acute on chronic given for unknown reasons , thepatient was initially placed on lasix b.i.d. , but was taken downto 80 mg once a day for lower extremity edema and swelling , givencreatinine of approximately 1.9 to 2.2. discharge creatinine was2.0. this will be followed up by villerich deo hospital as anoutpatient. it seems that this is chronic renal insufficiencyfrom long-standing diabetes without a severe acute component.the patient was on prophylactic lovenox and nexium whilein-house.disposition:home on oral keflex and colchicine as noted above.diet on discharge:diabetic diet , 2 , 100 calorie per day , a low saturated fat , andlow-cholesterol diet. walking , with weightbearing as tolerated.elevate legs and knees with prolonged sitting.discharge medications:include his home medications , fish oil capsule p.o. b.i.d. ,avandia 8 mg p.o. daily , carbamazepine 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,novolin sliding scale , lipitor 80 mg p.o. daily , metoprololtartrate 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. , will be on keflex 500 mg b.i.d. x10days , lasix 80 mg p.o. daily from now on given renalinsufficiency , avalide is being held until future notice , novolin5 to 10 units before breakfast and dinner , prilosec otc 20 mgb.i.d. , colchicine as noted above 0.6 mg b.i.d. for two days , 0.6mg daily for two days , followed by seven day of every other day ,colchicine , oxycodone 5 mg q.4h. p.r.n. for pain , will receiveeight tablets for pain control and four tablets of ativan 0.5 mgp.r.n. for anxiety t.i.d. , again four pills only at the time ofdischarge.discharge disposition:the patient is stable.escription document: 8-5937316 emsfocus transcriptionistsdictated by: steadham , devonattending: samyn , russeldictation id 1755688d: 0/5/05t: 0/5/05[report_end]