record date: 2095-12-07name:     upham, zeldamrn:      0308696the patient is here for a scheduled visit, status post hospitalization for emergentbypass surgery.  she is late for the visit.  she is accompanied by her daughter,qazi.  the patient denies chest pain and has done quite well, based on reportsfrom her rehab stay at the miller county hospital.  currently complaining ofleft-sided chest wall pain. no exertional chest pain and no shortness of breath.  hasan appointment pending with her cardiologist tomorrow.  also has an appointmentpending with surgeon dr. weeks for 12/13/95. has been compliant withmedications.  the patient's daughter is concerned that the patient is not eating enough.  has lostsignificant weight since hospitalization.  patient did agree that she has been watchingwhat she eats because she did not want to gain much weight.  explained to her theimportance of proper nutrition and getting back her strength.  asked if she can use an otc pain patch called salonpas. says that the chest walltenderness is very different from any exertional chest pain that she may have had inthe past.  would like some relief for this.  uses it on her knees and finds it helpfulfor the arthritic knee pain. emotionally, the patient did admit to feeling depressed and did become tearfulduring the visit. problems: see extensive lmr list. medications:  see lmr list. allergies:  sulfa, percocet and quinine. physical examination: well-appearing female. vital signs: wnl, as per flowsheet. lungs: clear with rales. cor: rrr, s1 and s2 without murmurs noted. assessment:(1)  cad: the patient is also on a cholesterol-lowering agent, but will update list     at next visit.  keep appointment with cardiologist. (2)  chest wall tenderness status post cabg: tried to encourage patient that there     will be some persistent discomfort in her wound for several months.  told her     to hold off on using the otc pain patch until i can verify the ingredients. (3)  depressed mood status post surgery: refuses referral to mental health. not     suicidal. encouraged patient to eat more regularly. (4)  return to clinic for follow-up in two weeks.  this visit lasted for 35 minutes, half of which was spent trying to counsel the patientto obtain proper nutrition and to go to mental health.  i was unsuccessful inconvincing her to attend a mental health session. helen whitehead, m.d.hw/warren/stark