record date: 2094-12-02	cardiology		baptist memorial hospital		reason for visit:   coronary artery disease, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, history of syncope	interval history:   mr. shepherd is a 79 year old man with coronary artery disease, hypertension, diabetes mellitus type 2, hyperlipidemia, carotid disease, and peripheral vascular disease who was admitted to the medicine service in june, 2094, for syncope and now returns for cardiology followup.  to summarize, in june, the patient was admitted after experiencing several syncopal episodes.  they were associated with a prodrome of lightheadedness and weakness that sometimes occurred with positional changes and at other times at rest.  he denied associated chest pain, palpitations, diaphoresis, vertigo, focal neurologic weakness, dysphagia, diplopia or blurry vision occur during the episodes. these spells lasted about 4-5 minutes and there were no incontinence, post-ictal symptoms, or tonic-clonic movements.   his workup included a surface echocardiogram that showed an ejection fraction of 59% but with inferior wall motion abnormalities.  a subsequent adenosine mibi showed mild inferolateral ischemia and a cardiac catheterization showed 40% ostial rca disease and a 75% lesion in a small diameter distal plv.  the culprit lesion was felt to be non-intervenable and the patient was started on medical therapy.  during his admission, his telemetry showed a twelve beat run of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia and so the electrophysiology service was called.  he underwent an electrophysiology study which was nondiagnostic and a reveal monitor was implanted.  prior to his discharge, the patient exhibited features of depression with psychotic features and he was ultimately transferred to the in-patient psychiatry unit for about four weeks. today, he presents with no acute complaints.  he denies chest pain, dyspnea, or palpitations.  he   s had no further fainting spells and reports that his last reveal interrogation was unremarkable.  his claudication is at his baseline.  he walks at a mall for 30 minutes to 1 hour before he experiences a "tired" sensation in both legs.  he is followed in the vascular clinic at the fhv medical center.  also of note, he underwent a repair of a right inguinal hernia in october of 2094 by dr. small without complications.  	past medical history:   coronary artery disease status post cardiac catheterization showing 40% ostial rca disease and distal plv disease medical therapy, no interventiondiabetes mellitus, type 2hypertensionhyperlipidemiabenign prostatic hypertrophyright external carotid stenosisperipheral vascular disease with claudication followed at fhv vascular clinicglaucomaventral hernia		allergies:	no known allergies	medications (confirmed):	asa  325mg po dailybrimonidine  0.2% x 1 drop ou bidcardura  4mg po dailycymbalta  60mg po dailyremoved - lasix  20mg po dailylisinopril  40mg po dailymiralax  17g po dailypletal  100mg po bidsenna  2tabs po bedtimetoprol xl  100mg po dailyzocor  80mg po qpmzyprexa  3.75mg po at bedtime	family history:   mom mi at age 63; grandson w/ h/o sudden loc at age 16 with negative w/u by peds; otherwise, no h/o sudden death.	social history:   retired archive manager who lives with wife; has 6 childrenhrb: quit smoking 20 years ago 40 pack-yr smoking history; no etoh; no drugs	review of systems:   general: unremarkableskin: unremarkableheent: unremarkablerespiratory: unremarkablecardiovascular: see abovegastrointestinal: unremarkablegenitourinary: nocturiaendocrine: unremarkablemusculoskeletal: unremarkableneurologic: unremarkablepsychiatric: unremarkablephysical examination:	-bmi: 30.2  obese, high risk-pulse: 56  regular-resp. rate: 100%  room air-height: 68  in.-weight: 198  lbs.-general:   pleasant and in no distress-skin:   unremarkable-heent:   perrl eomi op clear-neck:   bilateral carotid bruits; jvp~5 cm normal contours, no kussmaul's-chest:   ctab no dullness-cardiac:   left ventricular impulse discrete and nondisplaced. regular rate and rhythm, normal s1 and s2, with no s3 or s4. there were no murmurs, clicks or rubs.-abdomen:   soft ntnd +bs, ventral hernia-extremities:   2+ femorals bilateral without bruits; 1+ pitting ankle edema with trace dp pulses bilaterally and no foot ulcers-bp: 130/80  both arms	ekg:   sinus bradycardia at 56 with pacs lafb and ivcd with secondary nonspecific st t wave abnormalities; compared with the prior tracing, his heart rate has decreased by 30	assessment and plan:   79 year old man with known coronary artery disease and risk factors of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, carotid disease, and pvd who has a history of syncope.  he's had no recent episodes and is currently being monitored via a reveal monitor.  he is on medical therapy for coronary artery disease.  problem list:1. syncope - no recent episodes, being monitored with implanted loop recorder2. coronary artery disease in rca and distal plv on medical therapy - aspirin 325 - lisinopril 40 - toprol xl 100 - zocor 80 (last ldl 51)3. peripheral vascular disease - pletal (last echo ef normal) - statins - followed in vascular clinic at the fhv4. mild lower extremity edema, no evidence of jvd. consider lasix if worsening. other problems:diabetes mellitus, type 2hypertensionhyperlipidemiabphglaucomaventral herniadepressionreturn to care in 6 months or sooner if problems arise.pt seen and examined with dr. nuvia nadeau.	u. howard benjamin, md	attending note: i have seen and examined the patient, reviewed the history and data, and discussed with dr. benjamin in detail. i agree with the findings and plans documented in his note.	nuvia nadeau, md pager #90859	cc: yusuf lugo, m.d.	signed electronically by  u. howard benjamin, md; nuvia nadeau, mddocument status: final