record #815388664454891 | sprh | 57100830 | | 9434827 | 7/15/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 2/17/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/17/2005attending: mcentegart , jose m.d.service: ho ment tonprincipal diagnosis: cardiomyopathy , coronary artery disease.problem list and diagnosis:1. morbid obesity.2. diabetes.3. hypertension.history of present illness: the patient is a 51-year-old womanwith morbid obesity ( greater than 330 pounds ) , hypertension ,diabetes mellitus who presents with one week of increasingdyspnea on exertion. she notes that she can no longer walk fromroom to room without resting and she used to be able to walkaround her house. she also notes a frequent need to "get air"which also wakes her from sleep. she often opens the window ,turns on the air conditioning , etc. when she feels short ofbreath. she started sleeping on two pillows over the past fewweeks. she also reports an intermittent increase in her legswelling and a cough productive of scant clear to whitish sputum.she was unable to name her home medications , but stated that shetook four medications plus insulin which is in accordance withher lmr notes. she has not been able to check her fingerstickblood glucose levels recently because her machine has beenbroken. she denies chest pain , tightness except with coughing.she denies pleuritic pain , any recent illness , any sick contacts ,any change in urinary or bowel habits , any nausea or vomiting ,night sweats , diaphoresis or pain in her jaw or arms. of note ,her gies health primary care physician , dr. miquel crayford , note fromjuly 2004 noted tachycardia greater than 100 with decreasedexercise tolerance , inability to lie flat , and snoring anddaytime sleepiness. at this time , an echocardiogram performed inmarch 2004 revealed an ef of 60 to 65% , trace pr and no regionalwall motion abnormality.past medical history: significant for hypertension. bilateraldvts in 1972. the patient is not currently on anticoagulation.she was on coumadin for one year following this event.dysfunctional vaginal bleeding. fibroids. type ii diabetesmellitus. morbid obesity. pituitary microadenoma.home medications: ( per lmr - the patient confirms these as bestshe can recollect ).1. hctz 25 mg daily.2. glucophage 500 mg po b.i.d.3. nph insulin 60 q.a.m. , 20 q.p.m.4. lisinopril 40 mg.5. iron supplements.allergies: no known drug allergies.social history: the patient denies tobacco use , alcohol use ,drugs. she lives with her daughter who is one of her fourchildren , and eight of her 14 grandchildren in ottebashe does not work.family history: hypertension , diabetes mellitus. no known mi's.admission physical examination: temperature 98.8. heart rate137 , down to 98 with 5 mg of iv lopressor in the emergencydepartment. blood pressure 156/98 , satting 95% on room air. ingeneral , the patient is an obese , pleasant woman in no apparentdistress. heent: extraocular muscles are intact. mucousmembranes moist. no jvd. cardiovascular exam revealstachycardia , s1 , s2. no murmurs , rubs or gallops but heartsounds are distant and difficult to assess. lungs: decreasedbreath sounds throughout secondary to body habitus , but nocrackles or wheeze noted. abdomen: soft , nontender ,nondistended. extremities warm and well perfused. bilateralpitting edema to shins. derm: no ulcers or lesions.hyperpigmentation noted around neck and under breasts. gu exam:very trace guaiac positive stool.admission laboratory results: notable for a blood glucose of190 , bnp of 271 , and hematocrit of 32. ??_____?? ekg: sinustachycardia at 118 with no st or t-wave abnormalities. chestx-ray revealed mild cardiomegaly. no pulmonary edema. noinfiltrate. pe protocol ct ruled out central pe and showed asmall right pleural effusion.hospital course by problem:1. cardiovascular:ischemia: the patient had cycled electrocardiograms andbiomarkers. these were negative for myocardial ischemia or anyacute change. the patient was maintained on aspirin , lipitor 80mg , beta-blocker , and ace inhibitor. the patient underwentcardiac catheterization on 1/14/05 which revealed a 50% ladlesion , a 70% d1 lesion. these lesions were not intervened uponat the time of dictation. this patient is awaiting viabilitystudy.pump: the patient underwent echocardiography on 2/18/05. thefindings of that study were very concerning revealing ejectionfraction of 20 to 25% , sharply decreased from ef of 60 to 65% inmarch 2004. in addition , the study revealed global hypokinesiswith septal akinesis.rhythm: the patient has remained tachycardic and has beenmonitored on tele with no noted abnormalities. on the night of1/14/05 following cardiac catheterization , the patient had a 13beat run of nonsustained v. tach on telemetry. she receivedelectrolyte optimization and close monitoring. following thisepisode , the patient's cycled cardiac biomarkers revealed atroponin of 7.25 , mb fraction of 31 , ck of 283. as noted above ,she will undergo cardiac viability study on 0/5/05 and mayreceive evaluation by the electrophysiology service.2. pulmonary: the patient's initial presentation was suspiciousfor pulmonary embolism given her distant past medical history ofdvt's. however , when she was admitted , she exhibited onlytachycardia without evidence of tachypnea or hypoxia and herclinical course thus far , as well as her pe protocol ct is notsuggestive of this diagnosis. she has had a minimal oxygenrequirement over the course of her hospital stay. she doesexperience dyspnea on exertion , however , has not been hypoxic atany point.3. endocrine: tsh was normal. the patient was continued on heroral hypoglycemic as well as an adjusted insulin regimen whichwill be further altered prior to the patient's discharge. inaddition , she will be discharged with a prescription for a newblood glucose monitor. her last hemoglobin a1c check was closeto 12. given her concerning findings of coronary artery disease ,she will need to maintain much tighter control of her bloodglucose in the future. at the time of dictation , the patient isbeing maintained on scheduled nph as well as regular insulinsliding scale.4. hematologic: baseline anemia with admission hematocritimproved from prior infectious diseases. the patient'sproductive cough was thought to be not due to infection. thepatient has remained afebrile with normal white blood cell countover the course of her hospital stay.the remainder of this patient's hospital course and her dischargemedications will be dictated in a future addendum.escription document: 1-7325973 mcsfocus transcriptionistsdictated by: llyod , normanattending: kreitz , deshawndictation id 6880662d: 8/5/05t: 8/5/05[report_end]