record date: 2069-08-17name:    vines, stephenmrn:     1672569mr. vines comes in today.  he has been feeling pretty well though he isdistressed at his 18-pound weight gain.  his sugars were in the 300s before startingthe insulin.  since he started the insulin, his sugars have come down nicely.  hisfasting sugars have been in the 120s.  his afternoon sugars have been in the 70-90s. he had a few hypoglycemic episodes early on but has not had some in almost amonth.  other than that, he really has no new complaints.  he is still not smoking. he is still on the patch.  his neuropathy has not gotten any worse and he thinks hecan stop the neurontin now.  he has not had any shortness of breath, cough oredema.review of systems: as above.  no gi symptoms, no gu symptoms and nonew skin symptoms, no arthritic complaints. habits: not smoking or drinking.  not getting much exercise now.physical exam: his blood pressure is 140/80 on the left, 150/80 on the right. his pulse is 76 and regular.  respirations are 16.  lungs are clear. heart: regularrate and rhythm, negative m/r/g.  no bruits heard.  nasopharynx unremarkable. abdomen is benign.  he has diminished pulses but good capillary refill in the feet. the cellulitis on the left ankle is completely resolved.  he has some neuropathy ofthe feet with decreased sense to vibration in both feet, but his sensation tomonofilament is intact on both feet. assessment and plan:  (1)  diabetes.  will check his hemoglobin a1c today.  it may still be a little bit     high as he has undergone a rather brisk change since starting his insulin.  i     encouraged him to check his sugars a couple times a week, especially in the     afternoon.  if he continues to get low sugars, will cut back on his morning     insulin to 35 units.  he is going to bring in a form for custom shoes given his     neuropathy and is followed closely by podiatry.  he had an eye exam earlier     this year with dr. yousif.(2)  hypertension.  will increase his mavik to 4 mg a day.(3)  hyperlipidemia.  recheck lipids and sgot today.(4)  cad prevention.  he can't take aspirin so we will start plavix 75 mg a day.(5)  status-post splenectomy.  he needs a pneumovax booster 0.5 cc was given in     the left deltoid.scott phipps, m.d.sp/irons/quang