record date: 2079-01-05internal medicine associatesmesa vista hospitalreason for visit			  followup of multiple medical problems.major problemshand painthe patient has been treated with indocin and had resolution of his wrist swelling and pain, suggesting gout.  a: stable. p: indocin prn.  we will check renal function today.claudicationthe patient does not complain of pain today.  he has vascular disease and dr.  rico as well as our renal consultants were in contract about the optimal management and the worry of his renal artery stenosis.  i have referred him back to renal where he has not been seen in many months.coronary artery diseasethere are no new symptoms.  he had chest pain and an admission to colonial manor several months ago.  there, an adenosine mibi showed inferior scar and no reversible ischemia.  cardiac function was 67%.  there was diffuse contraction thickening of the walls.diabetes mellitusthe patient remains on metformin, and hemoglobin a1c will be rechecked.hypertensionthe patient remains on a complex regimen with the assistance of the renal service.  he remains on hydralazine, atenolol, cozaar, and norvasc.  his blood pressure has been stable by his report, and we get 150/80, repeated by me 150/70 today.  a: metastable hypertension. p: follow up renal service and check bun and creatinine today.renal failurehas proteinuria and a creatinine approaching 3.  i have asked him to reschedule a followup with the renal service.active medicationsaspirin 325 mg 1 tab  po qdatenolol 50 mg 1 tab  po qdclotrimazole (lotrimin) cream  top bid to feetcozaar 25mg po qdglucophage 500 mg 1 tab  po qdhydralazine 10 mg  po tidindocin 50 mg po tid take with foodlipitor 20 mg 1 tab  po qdlotrisone cream  prnnorvasc 10 mg 1 tab  po qdreview of systems			  no chest pain, palpitations, shortness of breath, dyspnea on exertion, orthopnea, or leg swelling or pain.physical examinationpulse   70blood pressure 150/80    , repeated by me 150/70weight   132 poundsgeneral appearance   well developed and well nourished in no apparent distressneck   carotids 2+.  no bruit detectedchest   clear to panda without rale or dullnesscor   s1 and s2 without significant murmurabdomen   bowel sounds positive, cannot detect bruit todayextrem   feet are well profused but only dp on the right is palpableassessment and plan			  renal failure, diabetes, coronary disease, and gout.  we will check labs for stability.  the patient had a report of apical thickening on a chest film at colonial manor and will repeat the chest x-ray today.  the patient is to follow up with me in short order in the renal service.addendum			  chest x-ray was reviewed, and pleural thickening is stable since 2075.  there is no chf or parenchymal disease.  there is vascular calcification of the aorta as well as coronary vessels.note transcribed by outside service			  transcription errors may be present.signed electronically by jeffers, oswald on jan 21, 2079     