record #76686515801211 | tlh | 66292649 | | 637093 | 1/26/1998 12:00:00 am | failed lt. knee | signed | dis | admission date: 2/25/1998 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/23/1998diagnosis: failed left total knee replacement.history of present illness: mrs. pollutro is an 80-year-old woman whohad a left primary total kneereplacement performed in 1976 for psoriatic arthritis. the patientdid well up until last fall when she developed pain and swellingand occasional symptoms of catching. radiographs showed failure ofher femoral component with evidence of polyethylene wear.past medical history: significant for psoriatic arthritisand noninsulin dependent diabetesmellitus which is diet controlled.past surgical history: status post bilateral total kneereplacements in 1976. status postright total hip replacement in 1992. status post left total hipreplacement in 1988. status post bilateral metacarpophalangeal andproximal interphalangeal arthroplasties. status postcholecystectomy. status post total abdominal hysterectomy withumbilical hernia in the past.allergies: no known drug allergies.admission medications: voltaren p.r.n.social history: the patient denies a history ofcigarette smoking or alcohol use. sheis on an 1800 ada diet. the patient is a widow who resides inye , and plans to be discharged torehabilitation.review of systems: the patient wears bifocals. thepatient has a remote history ofmigraine headaches. the patient has a history of tuberculosis inchildhood but no positive chest x-ray findings. the patient has ahistory of shortness of breath with exertion but no history ofcoronary artery disease , myocardial infarction , chest pain ,congestive heart failure , or deep vein thrombosis. the patient hasa history of noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus which is dietcontrolled. her primary care physician is dr. josh stencel ofwinphysical examination: on physical examination blood pressureis 150/80 with a pulse of 62 , height is5'3" and weight is 170 lbs. in general the patient is an obesewoman with an antalgic gait on the left without an assistivedevice. examination of her lymph nodes showed no lymphadenopathy.heent revealed pupils equal , round , and reactive to light withextraocular movements intact and normal pharynx. her lungs wereclear to auscultation bilaterally. her heart was regular rate andrhythm with a normal s1 and s2 and no murmur. her abdomen wasobese , soft , nontender , and nondistended. neurologically therewere no focal findings. extremities , the left knee revealed amedial parapatellar incision which was well healed. she had activerange of motion with a 10 degree extension deficit and flexion to90 degrees. she had a palpable dorsalis pedis and posterior tibialpulse and was neurovascularly intact distally. the patient wasinstructed to discontinue her nsaids and was given a prescriptionfor coumadin 5 mg p.o. on the evening prior to her surgery.hospital course: on 27 of march the patient underwentrevision of left total kneereplacement. she tolerated the procedure well with nointraoperative complications. she received perioperativeantibiotics and was continued on coumadin postoperatively. onpostoperative day one the patient was noted to be doing quite well.her hemovac put out a total of 540 cc initially plus 60 cc moreovernight , and the hemovac was discontinued. she was continued onthe ancef , coumadin , and given pain medicines.on postoperative day two the patient was having a difficult timecooperating with the nursing staff. she was refusing treatments ,medications , and blood draws. later in the day the patient seemedto be doing better , perhaps due to the arrival of her daughters.she became more compliant.on postoperative day three the patient's mental status improved andshe was compliant. she was doing quite well on the cpm with rangeof motion of 0-50 degrees. views of the left knee were obtained byx-ray. on 17 of january the patient was noted to be doing well. theincision was noted to be clean and dry with no evidence ofinfection. plans were made for her to be discharged torehabilitation.discharge medications: tylenol 650 mg p.o. q. four hoursp.r.n. headache , benadryl 25-50 mg p.o.q. h.s. p.r.n. sleep , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , iron sulfate 300mg p.o. t.i.d. times five days , folate 1 mg p.o. q.d. times fourdays , multivitamin one tablet p.o. q.d. , percocet 1-2 capsules p.o.q. 3-4 hours p.r.n. pain , metamucil p.r.n. , sorna topical lotionq.d. p.r.n. itch , coumadin to keep the pt inr between 1.5 and 2.0for a total of six weeks , and nizatidine 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.additional instructions: the patient was instructed to keep theincision clean and dry for five moredays , and then she may begin showering as long as there is noevidence of a discharge. the patient was instructed not to takebaths. a dry sterile dressing may be applied on a p.r.n. basis.the patient is to continue working with physical therapy for rangeof motion and gait training per the total knee replacementprotocol.complications during admission: none.disposition: to rehabilitation.condition upon discharge: stable.dictated by: kirk onofrio , m.d. nl073attending: kelly atcheson , m.d. gc3ks412/2581batch: 2445 index no. rfcngs45zo d: 0/18/98t: 0/18/98[report_end]