record #513806545034323 | sh | 07442907 | | 5454834 | 9/10/2005 12:00:00 am | angina , myocardial infarction | signed | dis | admission date: 9/10/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 8/14/2005attending: seabrooke , odell forrest mdprincipal diagnosis on admission: non-st elevation , acutemyocardial infarction , and acute renal failure. she wastransferred from the c a hospital to the ersullcy medical centerhistory of present illness: this is a 78-year-old lady withdiabetes and known coronary artery disease status post cabg andstatus post multiple pcis. she was in her usual state of healthuntil three weeks ago when she began with classical paroxysmalnocturnal dyspnea. she was taken to ordland university of medical center onthree different occasions in the past three weeks prior toadmission , where she was treated for pulmonary edema. prior toher admission to the i.marg healthcare , she had had atroponin leak of up to 3.6. this was on the 8 of september . she also was admitted with acute renal failure. hercreatinine on the 20 of november per note was 1.1. when weadmitted her creatinine was 2.6. this was likely secondary tothe fact that she had received amikacin for urinary tractinfection at the tawno health and she had also had achest , abdominal , and pelvis contrast ct leading to contrastnephropathy. when she was admitted , her main problems were thefollowing: she had a non-st elevation myocardial infarction.she was a high-risk patient with a timi score of 5. she hadacute renal failure probably secondary to a number of factorsincluding contrast dye what she had received at the outsidehospital and amikacin which she had received for urinary tractinfection. her other problem was she had a urinary tractinfection per report secondary to e. coli resistant to levaquinand gentamicin.her past medical history was relevant for the following:she had diabetes type 2 with chronic renal insufficiencysecondary to the diabetes. she has anxiety disorder. she hadcoronary artery disease status post cabg in 1992. she is statuspost pci with a stent placed in 2002 , and 2004 apparently. shealso had congestive heart failure with an ef per an echoperformed at burg man'stard memorial hospital was 35%. she had gerd andbarrett's esophagus. she had hypertension andhypercholesterolemia. she had had a pacemaker placed. she hadhemorrhoids. she had osteoarthritis with both knees. she hadspinal stenosis and chronic back pain status post cholecystectomyand a history of asthma.her allergies included the following: bactrim , penicillin ,erythromycin , keflex , metformin , clindamycin , and ciprofloxacin.her social history , she was in a nursing facility. she isdivorced. she has four kinds. lives in gle and is oftenvisited by her children.physical examination: on admission , her temperature was 96 , herpulse 77 , her blood pressure was 170/95 , although admittedly itwas difficult taking her blood pressure by auscultation. thiswas measured by palpation and confirmed by doppler. she wassatting 96% on 3.5 l via nasal cannula. she is alert andoriented x3 in no acute distress. she had arcus senilis. herextraocular movements are intact. she had pupils equal , round ,and reactive to light. her chest showed bibasilar crackles/ralestwo-thirds way up. her jvp is 10 cm water. her heart had aregular rate and rhythm with no gallop. no rubs or murmursheard. her abdomen is benign. her extremities are warm with noedema and she is grossly neurologically intact.her first set of labs at the ha ottejaquesrence hospitalrevealed the following: sodium 140 , potassium 4.2 , chloride 105 ,co2 24 , bun 40 , creatinine 2.5 , glucose 95 , white blood cellcount of 10.16 , a hemoglobin of 10.0 , platelets 232 , inr 1.5.her bnp was 2138. her lipase was 7. her troponin level was0.75.hospital course by problem:non-st elevation acute myocardial infarction. on presentation ,the patient had several ekg changes consistent with an acutecoronary syndrome. she was in normal sinus rhythm with t waveflattening or inversion in leads v4 to v6 and in the inferiorleads also 2 , 3 , avf. she had q-s complexes in v1 through v3.she was deemed to be a high-risk patient for the timi score of5and they documented troponin leak. she was managed medically ,not interventionally given her acute renal failure. she wastreated with unfractionated heparin with a ptt level of 50 to 70seconds. she was given aspirin , plavix. she was also giveneptifibatide intravenously for five days and is also treated withbeta blockers and ace inhibitor. after five days , she had norecurrent chest pain. her ekg changes were persistent but hertroponin levels have trended downwards and she has really beenasymptomatic in this regard. regarding her pulmonary edema , wetreated with lasix initially 40 mg iv lasix x1 and then onstanding po lasix 40 mg daily , and diuresed her and also gave hermorphine and oxygen. within four or five days , her physicalexamination was much better and her crackles and rales hadmarkedly decreased. on admission , she was saturating 96% on 3.5l. she progressed. her oxygen requirements decreased. she wasdiuresed and was finally weaned off oxygen and is currentlysaturating 97% on room air. the plan is for her to continue onaspirin , plavix , high-dose lipitor , and beta-blocker , andnitrates as needed.2. in terms of her acute renal failure , based on the recordsfrom the trickvan agi health network , her creatinine had jumped from1.1 to 2.5 in three days. this was felt to be most likely due tointrinsic renal failure. she did not have a low urine output andshe had received amikacin in the past few days prior to admissionas well as contrast dye and she did have a history of contrastdye induced nephropathy leading to a predialysis state , althoughshe did not get dialysis on that occasion. here , we simplyavoided nephrotoxic agents , were judicious in the use of lasixwith strict ??____?? controls , and her creatinine gradually beganto decrease and today it is down to 1.6. infectious diseasewise , she came with the documented urinary tract infectionreported to be due to e. coli resistant to levofloxacin andgentamicin. here , we cultured her again and found e. coli morethan a 100 , 000 colonies , which was resistant to ampicillin ,gentamicin , ciprofloxacin , and levofloxacin. it was sensitive toceftazidime and she therefore received renally dosed ceftazidimefor her uti to complete a 7 to 10-day course. blood culturesdrawn on the 2 of july showed no growth to date. thepatient has also been afebrile in with a white blood cell countbetween 7 and 11 , 000. in terms of her hypertension , of note , ithas been difficult to measure her blood pressure , probablymeasuring her blood pressure in her left arm by palpation is amost reliable way to do this. she was treated here withhydralazine , lopressor , and diuretics. on discharge , she feelswell. today , she told me that she has not filled this for a longtime. she had no recurrent chest pain or shortness of breath.she is afebrile with a temperature of 98. her pulse rangesbetween 60 and 70. her blood pressure is between 102 and 150systolic and she is satting 95% on room air. her current weightis 73 kg and she is deemed to be euvolemic so this should be hertarget weight and she is ambulating with assistance. she isalert and oriented x3 in no acute distress. she has got pupilsequal , round , and reactive to light. she has only a fewbibasilar crackles on bases. otherwise , her lungs are clear.her heart has a regular rate and rhythm with no gallops , rubs , ormurmurs. her abdomen is benign. her extremities are warm. herright calf is quite tender to palpation. she has a documentedold dvt in her gastrocnemius vein. this is old and she hasprobably got some postphlebitic syndrome and should be followed.she is neurologically grossly intact.her laboratories at discharge include the following:sodium 139 , potassium 4.7 , her creatinine is 1.6 , bun is 50 , herwhite blood cell count is 11.01 , hematocrit 28.5 , hemoglobin 9.2 ,and platelets 258 with an inr of 1.2.her medications at discharge include the following:1. enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg orally daily.2. ceftazidime 1 g iv q.24h. until november to complete a7-day course.3. colace 100 mg orally twice a day in case of constipation.4. lasix 40 mg orally every 12 hours.5. heparin 5000 units subcutaneously three times a day , whilethe patient is bedridden.6. isosorbide dinitrate 10 mg orally three times a day.7. lopressor 37.5 mg orally three times a day with holdparameters , hold if systolic blood pressure is less than 110 , ora heart rate is less than 55.8. sublingual nitroglycerin as needed.9. vicodin one tablet every six hours in case of pain.10. risperidone 0.5 mg orally once a day.11. lipitor 80 mg orally once a day.12. plavix 75 mg orally once a day.13. celexa 20 mg orally once a day.14. esomeprazole 20 mg orally once a day.15. lantus 17 units subcutaneously every morning.16. novolog sliding scale.disposition and plan: the patient is to go to rehabilitation.things to do specifically include the following:she should be diuresed with lasix as needed to achieve a dryweight goal of 72 kg. she should continue on ceftazidime for herurinary tract infection until november and her calf pain -dvt should be followed , one possibly to raise the clevewill ent hospital as this may represent in a cold malignancy , for which shemay need to be worked up once the acute setting is over.studies performed at this hospital include the following:a renal ultrasound as part of her workup for acute renal failurereveal a right kidney with a size of 11.8 cm and apical corticalcyst , left kidney 10.6 cm , and no hydronephrosis. the patientalso had a mibi , spect of her heart , which revealed thefollowing:the combined ??____?? ischemia plus scar during the stress weremoderately abnormal with a summed stress score of 9. her rest lvejection fraction was 50%. the patient's pet ct test resultswere normal and consistent with a small region of myocardialischemia in the septal area and also a focus of ischemia in theom territory. she had abnormal global lv systolic function andthese results demonstrated in interval progressing per her priorstudy performed on june , 2004.escription document: 1-2810213 issten telcc: beau yong mccarron mdine spodes landsa hisoncc: bernard thormahlentua health servicessgrove noville revethouleighrocksamontotte hunt udictated by: lidtke , weston emmanuel bobattending: casello , rudy montydictation id 2527053d: 8/3/05t: 8/3/05[report_end]