667097787 | ach | 48604344 | | 613851 | 11/16/1997 12:00:00 am | new atrial fibrillation | signed | dis | admission date: 10/23/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 8/21/1997history of present illness: the patient is a 76 year old woman whohad a two vessel coronary arterybypass graft on 3/10/97. she was discharged to home on 5/4/97 todiand leb hospital hospital and hospital where she developedepigastric discomfort and recurrent atrial fibrillation and wastransferred back to landso souwalt medical center .her cardiac history dates back to october of 1995 when she wasadmitted to kassi rehabilitation hospital for an asthma flare. at thattime she ruled out for a myocardial infarction. her cks werenegative. an exercise test at that time showed she was able to goeight minutes on a bruce protocol with 2 mm st depressions in leads2 , 3 , and f. a mibi showed a small reversible defect inferiorlyand she was managed medically at that time.in february of 1996 she was again admitted to lita hospital with chest pain. she ruled out for a myocardialinfarction. she was started on prilosec for presumedgastroesophageal reflux disease. in september of 1996 an exercisethallium test showed she went eight minutes on a bruce protocolwith a heart rate of 125 , blood pressure 170/80 , and no ecgchanges. she stopped secondary to chest pain.from 3/30/97 through 3/5/97 she presented with chest pressure atrest which radiated to her shoulders and jaw. on presentation shewas noted to be in rapid atrial fibrillation. an ecg at that timeshowed elevated t-waves in v1 and v2. she was treated withlopressor with slowing of the rate and relief of her chest pain.she ruled in for a myocardial infarction with a peak ck of 473 withan mb fraction of 32. her lopressor was changed to verapamilsecondary to increased wheezing requiring nebulizers. the patientunderwent a cardiac catheterization. the catheterization revealedan left anterior descending artery that had 70% proximal lesionwith collaterals , left circumflex artery with long 80 to 90%stenosis , right coronary artery 30 to 40% stenosis , left ventriclewith ejection fraction of 58% , and apical akinesis. shespontaneously converted to normal sinus rhythm. followingcatheterization the patient agreed to a coronary artery bypassgraft but the procedure was postponed until she received epogentherapy since she is a jehovah's witness. she was discharged insinus rhythm.she returned on 10/17/97 and underwent a coronary artery bypassgraft times two which was complicated by a perioperative myocardialinfarction with inferior st elevations and peak ck of 386 and mbfraction of 8.1. atrial fibrillation was not controlled withverapamil. the patient was loaded on digoxin and had multipleepisodes of atrial fibrillation. she converted to normal sinusrhythm and was discharged to rehabilitation on 5/4/97 in normalsinus rhythm.her postoperative course was notable for gastrointestinal distresswith epigastric burning , reflux , nausea , vomiting , andconstipation. on 5/4/97 at rehabilitation the patient notedworsening epigastric burning with a sour taste in her mouth. thiswas relieved with maalox. she was awakened from sleep withepigastric burning radiating to the right back and palpitations.ecg showed rapid atrial fibrillation at a rate of 125 to 150 andshe was treated with verapamil 2.5 mg iv times two and converted tonormal sinus rhythm. the patient was noted to have st elevationsof 1 mm in 1 , 3 , and f and she was transferred to yacull hospital for further evaluation. she had no complaint of shortnessof breath , orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , syncope , orpresyncope. at vero medical center she was noted to haveepigastric burning similar to a prior episode and was treated withmaalox with relief.physical examination: she was lying in bed in no apparentdistress. heent: normocephalic ,atraumatic. pupils equal , round , and reactive to light andaccommodation. extraocular movements intact. oropharynx benign.neck: supple. full range of motion. no lymphadenopathy.carotids 2+ without bruits. jvp 8 cm. heart: no heave and nothrill. regular rate. s1 , split s2. 2/6 systolic murmur at apex.positive for frictional rub. lungs clear to auscultation. nowheeze or rhonchi. chest had midline sternotomy without anyexudate or erythema. sternum was stable. back: no costovertebralangle tenderness. abdomen: keloid in right upper quadrant. soft ,nontender , nondistended. no hepatosplenomegaly. extremities: noclubbing , cyanosis , or edema. neurologic: alert and orientedtimes three. cranial nerves ii - xii intact. intact sensation andstrength throughout. reflexes symmetric and toes downgoing.laboratory data: sodium 129 , potassium 5.4 , creatinine 1.0 , bun20 , glucose 227. digoxin level 2.6. hematocrit45.1 , wbc 9.2. her triponin-1 level was 0.7. ecg at aifield sum taning healthcare center was in normal sinus rhythm. normal left axis ,normal intervals. 0.16 , 0.88 , 0.36. rate of 85. left atrialenlargement. 1 mm st depressions in 1 and 2 which is consistentwith digoxin effect. 1 mm upsloping st elevations in 2 , 3 , and funchanged from prior ecg on 8/28/97. chest x-ray showed mediastinalshadow. stable with question of atelectasis at left base.hospital course: the patient ruled out for a myocardial infarctionand her chest burning was primarily due togastrointestinal reflux which was relieved with maalox , as well aschest discomfort in her left shoulder which was due tomusculoskeletal pain and was relieved with tylenol and percocet ordarvocet. on monitor she showed no evidence of atrial fibrillationalthough she did have supraventricular tachycardia and one incidentof a ten-beat run. in light of the fact that the patient is ajehovah's witness and is not a candidate for being coumadinized forepisodes of rapid atrial fibrillation , it was felt that we woulduse the anti-arrhythmic agent , propafenone , to prevent episodes inthe perioperative period of atrial fibrillation. her digoxin wasdiscontinued and she tolerated propafenone load of 150 mg t.i.d.well along with her verapamil dose.other issues during this admission were that her blood sugar washigh requiring sliding scale of insulin. also the patient hadhyponatremia with sodium in the high 120s and low 130s throughouther stay , as well as a potassium which was mildly elevated , rangingfrom 5.0 to 5.8. cortisol levels were drawn and results arepending for possibility of adrenal insufficiency. the question ofa renal tubular acidosis type iv was raised.throughout the admission her chest burning was well controlled withmaalox. her pepcid dose was increased to 20 mg b.i.d.helicobacter pylori and igg antibodies were sent and results arepending. her musculoskeletal pain which is primarily in her leftshoulder radiating to her arm has been well controlled withtylenol.past medical history: significant for coronary history as above ,asthma which has required hospitalization inthe past but no intubations , adult-onset diabetes mellitus forwhich she takes micronase , hypertension , gastroesophageal refluxdisease , hypercholesterolemia , status post cholecystectomy , leftlower lobe granuloma followed by chest ct scan , and cataracts.discharge medications: tylenol 650 mg p.o. q4h , albuterol inhaler2 puffs q.i.d. , ecasa 81 mg p.o. q.d. ,beclovent 2 sprays t.i.d. , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , epogen 10 , 000units subcu three times a week , gliburide 5 mg p.o. q.d. , mevacor20 mg p.o. q.p.m. , prilosec 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. , propafenone 150 mgp.o. t.i.d. , verapamil sr 120 mg p.o. q.d.allergies: beta blockers and lisinopril. it is questionablewhether she has allergy to naprosyn as well.social history: she lives at home with her daughter. no alcohol.no tobacco.disposition: the patient is being discharged to on medical center she will likely require ashort course of physical therapy and rehabilitation and will bereturning to home following her course of rehabilitation.followup: she will follow-up in the future with her primary carephysician , dr. ruacho , as well as with her cardiologist , dr.ciccarello condition on discharge: the patient is stable on the dayof discharge.dictated by: art reifsnyder , m.d.attending: louie a. roghair , m.d. ad2rm025/7236batch: 9220 index no. wmcv4y199x d: 4/21/97t: 4/21/97cc: 1. todd lile , m.d. sl26