record date: 2107-08-03team 3a intern admission notename:	do, tanyamrn:  6051778date of admission: 8/03/07pcp: dr. orelia burnsadmitting physician: dr. orelia burnschief complaint:  	79 year old woman with dm-2 (7 years), htn, on chronic immunosuppression for ra, presents with left lower leg erythema and swelling. history obtained from:  patient, chart reviewhistory of present illness:  	this is a 79 year old woman with a long-standing history of ra on chronic immunosuppression (prednisone and now on methotrexate), dm-2 (hba1c 5.5), previous history of leg surgeries with ?vasculitis, and prior history of cellulitis, who presents with a 1 week history erythema and swelling on right lower leg (anterior).  ms. do has had two prior hospitalizations for cellulitis/osteomyelitis. in 2104, she developed osteomyelitis following a fall, requiring surgery for debridment (right leg).  in 2106, she was also admitted to seymour hospital with cellulitis of right leg and required a 2-week course of iv antibiotics.  at this presentation, she has been in her usual state of health (et 25 feet, limited by pain in legs, no dyspnea, no chest pain) until last tuesday when she presented to her podiatrist for a corn removal (right foot). the podiatrist made an observation that she had some erythema on the dorsal part of the foot. she was not experiencing any pain.  over this past week, she noted that the erythema and some swelling had extended, now to include the anterior portion of the lower shin.  she presented to efhc for a follow-up appointment, and was treated with keflex po.  her cellulitis failed to improve and she presented to her pcp for evaluation on the day of admission, and was directly admitted to ogh.	she denies any new fevers or chills (patient is having almost daily night sweats, which have been partially relieved with standing tylenol intake. these night sweats, along with the weight loss and anorexia are in the process of being worked up at this time). she has had no cough, nasal discharge, headaches, diarrhea, or dysuria/burning. no recent trauma to the leg.past medical history:diabetes 	on oral hypoglycemics, no history of insulin use	checks own fsg tid	hba1c - 5.5% (3/07)	yearly eye exams, frequent podiatrist visitshypertension - on two agents, no known history of cadrheumatoid arthritis	40+ year history	has been on chronic steroids - 25 years	methotrexate - several yearsosteomyelitis - 2104 (left foot)	fallowing a fall and injuryvasculitis on legs with ulcers leg cellulites - 2106right renal mass 	see on ct scan during a work-up for anorexia, weight loss, and night sweats	to be biopsied by irchronic anemia - approximately monthly aranesp injections - being evaluated at efhcosteoporosis	multiple fracturesspinal stenosis - s/p rod fixation/fusiontia - 2106, no residual deficitshyperlipidemiasecondary adrenal insufficiency - due to chronic steroid useviral meningitis - 2106cataracts - bilateral surgeriessurgeries:back fusion - 2098, 2099left knee replacement - 2082right knee replacement - 2081right hip replacement - 2070sigmoid resection secondary to obstruction - 2103reversal of colostomy - 2103cataract surgeriesmedications: 1.	methotrexate 15 mg qweek2.	prednisone 5 mg bid3.	glucophage 1000 mg bid4.	folic acid 1 mg qam5.	zabeta 1.25 mg qd6.	fosamax 70 mg qweek7.	celebrex 200 mg bid8.	aspirin 81 mg qd9.	tylenol 1000 mg bid10.	calcium 500 mg bid11.	mvi 1 qd12.	lipitor 10 mg qod13.	lisinopril 10 mg qd14.	plavix 75 mg qdallergies: 	codeine, morphine - nausea	family history: father - died when patient was 13 months oldmother - diabetesno know family history of malignancies or autoimmune disorderssocial history:divorced, lives alone, no children. used to work as a paralegal for 42 years. retired.     tobacco: 50 pack-year history (stopped 20 years ago)    alcohol: nonereview of system: general: night sweats, weight loss - 1.5 years.  loosing approximately 0.5-1 lbs per week.skin: multiple bruises, easy bruisingheent: no headaches, trauma, , diplopia, photophobia, eye pain or discharge;  hearing loss  (? worsened after meningitis) deficits; no epistaxis, rhinorrhea, sinus pain; no dental problems, mouth sores, pain or hoarsness, no history of thrushneck: no pain, limitation of motion, massesresp: no pleuritic pain, wheezing, cough, hemoptysiscv: no chest pain, palpitations, doe, orthopnea, pnd, claudicationsgi: decreased appetite during the past several months.  no food intolerance,  dysphagia, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, hematemesis, hematochezia, diarrhea, constipation, hemorrhoidgu: no dysuria, urgency, burning, frequency, polyuria, nocturia, hesitancy, incontinence, hematuriaheme: easy bleeding, bruisingmsk: see hpineuro: no vertigo, tremors, memory deficits, seizures, paralysis, weakness, incoordination, aphasia physical exam:vs: bp=142/ 67; hr=77 ; rr=20 ; sao2=95% ra ; tmax=100.7; weight=100.6 general: in no apparent acute distress, well-nourishes, well-groomed, appears of younger than stated ageskin: soft, warm, moist, multiple bruises on extremitiesheent: ncat, perrl, eomi; sclera anicteric, no conjuntival injections, no nasal erythema or discharge; moist mucous membranes, no oropharyngeal lesions, no thrushneck: supple, full range of motion, no thyromegaly, jvp 5-6 cmlymph glands: no cervical, supraclavicular, inguinal ladspine: no spinal tenderness, normal curvutre. scars consistent with prior surgeries. no cva tenderness.chest: no dullness to precussion, good air entry bilaterally, clear to auscultation without wheezes, rales, ronchicor: non-displaced pmi, no precordial thrills or heaves; regular rhythm, normal rate, normal s1, s2, ? s4, no murmursabdomen:  scars consistent with a prior surgery, minimally distended, bs normal throughout; soft, non-tender to palpation and precussion, no rebound tenderness or guarding, no organomegaly or masses palpatedext: trace edema at ankles right >left; no clubbing or cyanosis; bruise (palpable on right distal shin), erythema and slightly increased temperature on leftight anterior shin (8x5 cm).  no tenderness to palpation, no tenderness to palpation of calves bilaterally. scars from prior surgery on the right.  upper extremities - left in brace; ulnar deviation bilaterally, increased mcps and pips, + rheumatoid nodulespulses: 2+ radial, dorsalis pedis, posterior tibialis bilaterally neuro: awake, alert, very talkative. cn - perrla, eomi, symmetric face with intact sensation, no horizontal or vertical nystagmus.  normal tone, 5/5 strength throughout upper and lower extremities; 2+ brachial, radial, patellar, ankle reflexes; downward plantar reflexes bilaterally; bilaterally equal and intact sensation to light touch, cold, vibration; intact proprioception bilaterally.  normal-based gait.labs:recent labs pendingradiology: ct scan:  mild splenomegaly with multiple discrete splenic lesions and calcified foci.  differential diagnosis includes granulomas/sarcoidosis.  isolated lymphoma is also a consideration.  on imaging it is difficult to differentiate these pathologies. 	two discrete lesions in the posterior cortex of right kidney are suspicious for solid renal mass or hyperdense cyst.assessment/plan: 	this is a 79 year old woman with past medical history of dm-2, chronic immunosuppresion (steroid use), ra, htn, h/o leg ulcers, cellulitis and osteomyelitis, who presents with a 1 week history of left lower extremity swelling and erythema, without other symptomatic complaints, that has been resistant to po treatment1.	cellulitis - this woman is predisposed to cellulitis for a number of reasons, including chronic immunosuppression, diabetes, and prior surgeries to the area that have altered the anatomy and blood supply and lymphatic drainage.  other potential causes include osteo or dvt. at this point, there is little to suspect osteo in this patient.a.	blood culturesb.	given her multiple problems, requires broad spectrum coverage - zosyn 2.25 g iv q6 h (crcl 45)c.	elevate the legd.	warm compresses to increased circulatione.	mark the extent of cellulitis and monitor progression with therapyf.	if cellulitis does not improve - will get imaging to evaluate for underlying infection. will also get lenis to rule out a dvt.2.	weight loss, anorexia, night sweats, now with r kidney mass - the differential for potential causes is very broad. she apparently had a negative ppd last year.  extensive work-up to date was only notable for kidney cysts and massa.	will attempt to schedule ir-guided biopsyb.	will stop asa, plavix and celebrex in anticipation of the biopsyc.	continue to monitor fever curve3.	diabetes - patient is taking in normal diet, however in the setting of infection, will  put of home meds and do riss/fsg4.	htn - continue lisinopril5.	ra - continue prednisone and methotrexate a.	blood cultures (in the setting of patient's infection)b.	monitor fever curve and other vitals signs carefully6.	adrenal insufficiency - given patient's long term history of steroid use, she will need stress doses if becomes more acutely ill7.	prophylaxis - nexium 20 qd; fragmin 2500 u sc qd8.	code - dni but wants chest compressions "for a while".  healthcare proxy (theresa  kraft  270 ridge road/street, little elm, mo 86277, tel 019-793-7578)-------------------------------denise overman, mdpager 13831