record date: 2085-04-22 this patient wants to transfer his care from the mccook erie clinic to me. he got my name from a nurse who works in the hospital.  he is a 58 year old white male retired transportation manager with a number of issues.  1)  he had a cyst or a mass enlarge in his r submental region which was excised at the mccook erie clinic.  note from his surgeon there said the path showed nonkaziating granuloma.  i hope cultures are pending.  the patient does volunteer at a homeless shelter so could  certainly be exposed to tb or atypical mycobacteria.  2)  the patient has know mitral valve prolapse, mitral regurgitation followed at the mec by a cardiologist. he had a stress test in the last year that was benign. never had chf or endocarditis.  3)  social situation.  the patient is a sober alcoholic and sober for the last 2 years however he went through divorce probably because of his alcoholism 10 years ago and took early retirement from brookdale metro systems because of his alcoholism. he stays sober by going to meetings and also volunteering at the mccook clinic. he lives with a woman. he has good relations with his grown children and his grand children.  his woman friend is very supportive and the patient is now feeling good enough about himself that he is ready to try and get work full time.  previous attempts to do so have resulted in failure because of his hx of alcoholism and his premature retirement. family hx. father died at age 79 of altzheimers and some kind of cancer ? throat cancer.  his mother had diabetes and coronary artery disease and she died of colon cancer. the patient himself had a colonoscopy within the last year and it was normal.  one brother and 2 sisters, one of the sisters also has mitral valve disease.  past medical hx the alcoholism and he was stabbed in the l hand i think in 2059 and that was repaired. he also had a tna in childhood.  he has no known allergies to medications. the only medication he takes is lisinopril 5 mg for blood pressure. he was only started on this in the last year. he also takes a vitamin a day. his other significant medical complaint is erectile dysfunction.  he has normal libido and good sexual drive however he tends to lose erection after he has gone for a few minutes.  he can achieve vaginal penetration.  his live in lover has been supportive but she would like him to have better performance and so would he. he does wake up in the morning frequently with erections. he has no known hx of diabetes.  no prolonged hypertension or vascular disease.   social hx.  the patient eats fairly well. he walks usually a mile or so a day.  he does not do any aerobic activity. he does smoke  to a pack a day and has for many, many years.  he does wear seat belts when he drives and does not do any elicit drugs.  on system review:  weight stable.  no change in skin. he always had a very gravelly voice.  he has had no change in his vision. he is very deaf in the l ear.  he has a morning cough no hemoptysis.  cough is about a teaspoon of white/gray sputum. he has no dyspnea on exertion.  he has no angina.  no palpitations.  no presyncope or syncope.  no claudication. he has no dysphagia. he has no epigastric discomfort.  no change in his bowel movements and no rectal bleeding.  he has no claudication.  no edema and no joint pains. no headaches and no low back pain.  no long bone pain.  he has no heat or cold intolerance.  he has no easy bruisability.   pe: shows him to 5'7".  155 lbs.  skin benign.  nails do show some early clubbing. no cyanosis.  normal no av knicking.  flat disks. pupils equally round and reactive to light and accommodation at 3 mm. nares normal.  tms normal. hearing is markedly diminished in the l ear. head is normal cephalic. thyroid not enlarged.  there is the scar at the site of his excision under the mandible. no associated adenopathy on either r or l neck or axilla or the supraclavicular region.  he is hyperesonant to percussion.  he has distant breath sounds. no rales, rhonchi or wheezes. he has normal s1.  normal s2 and holosystolic blowing 2-3/6 mid systolic murmur radiates best to the axilla. no radiation to the clavicles. no carotid bruits.  jugular venous pulsation to 7 sonometers. abdomen is soft and non tender. there is no enlargement of the liver. no adeventitious masses. there is a l inguinal weakness without frank hernia.  phallus uncircumsized. testes normal. prostate is a little difficult feel because he has a band around the anal sphincter which makes it difficult for me to get beyond but i felt probably half of his prostate and it was normal and smooth. stool was guac negative. reflexes 3+ and equal throughout and normal vibratory sense and touch. normal gait and station. assessment and plan: 1)  recent rapidly growing mass under the r mandible showing nonkaziating granuloma.  culture is pending and we will plant a ppd and control early next week. i will have him tracked down the report of this from the mec and get culture reports and will get chest x-ray today both for his copd to rule out a cavitary lesion.  2)  alcoholism now sober.3)  erectile dysfunction try viagra. he was given appropriate warnings and instructions.  i gave him 100 mg # 7.  4)  mitral valve prolapse by auscultation followed by cardiologist at the mec.5)  we spent a long time talking about smoking cessation.  he has some wellbutrin at home from when he was depressed while getting sober and i encouraged him to take 150 b.i.d. and we made a plan for him to try and quit.   i will see patient again next week to plant a ppd and then see him again in about a month to see how he is doing.  we will certainly check the chest x-ray to make sure he did not have active cavitary disease. leroy x. oshea, m.d.    not reviewed by attending physician 