197067530 | nth | 20930664 | | 243759 | 10/2/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/2/1994 report status: signeddischarge date: 8/6/1994principal diagnosis: 1. chest painhistory of present illness: the patient is a 72 year old , blackfemale with a history of coronaryartery disease , inferior infarct , mitral valve replacement ,hypertension , atrial flutter who presented with six hours of chestpain. the patient has had episodes of chest pain in the past.today the pain spread to her epigastrium and made her nauseated anddiaphoretic. she was very short of breath. she stood up , becamedizzy and vomited once. she was brought by a neighbor to theemergency room. in the emergency room she received sublingualnitroglycerin x 3 and 2 mg of morphine , 2" of nitropaste withrelief of her chest pain. her ekg had no changes going from painto pain free. she was admitted for rule out of myocardialinfarction. past medical history: is significant for rheumaticheart disease diagnosed at age 30. in 1965 she had a mitral valvecommissurotomy and in 1981 she had an mitral valve replacement withst. jude valve. in october of 1992 she was noted to have atrialflutter and she was started on clonidine , switched to quinidine andthen put on pravastatin. she has been cardioverted three timesmost recently in october of 1994. history of congestive heartfailure , deep venous thrombosis x 2 , adult onset diabetes on nph 10units q am , rheumatoid arthritis , question of cerebrovascularaccident and thyroid nodule , status post iodine treatment. pastsurgical history: as above. allergies: penicillin. she developsanaphylaxis; aspirin she gets a rash. medications on admission:were lopressor , coumadin , lasix , pravastatin , plaquenil andinsulin. social history: she lives alone. no alcohol , tobacco ordrug use. family history: she had a mother , brother and son allwho are notable for having irregular heart beats.physical examination: on admission she was afebrile. bloodpressure was 200/palpable to 130/85. hersaturation was 98%. physical examination was unremarkable. herchest had bilateral crackles , left greater than right. on cardiacexamination her heart showed regular rate and rhythm , s-1 , s-2 withslight s-1 snap. no rubs or gallops. belly was soft. nohepatosplenomegaly. pulses were intact. she was neurologicallyintact.laboratory data: significant for an elevated chloride and an uricacid of 7.8. her first ck was 5.4.hospital course: the patient was admitted for rule out myocardialinfarction. she was started on heparin ,lopressor and nitropaste. her insulin was continued with q.i.d.finger sticks and she was continued on her pravastatin and hercoumadin was held at this time. the patient remained stable withsubsequent ck's being 54 , 55 and 46. the patient's lopressor wasincreased to increase her rate control during her admission andthen her coumadin was restarted. a cardiology consultation wasobtained and the patient was begun on isordil 10 mg t.i.d. withadequate blood pressure tolerance. her lopressor was increased to100 b.i.d. to improve symptomatic control. during her admissionthe patient had experienced some chest pain on hospital day numberthree. there were no ekg changes at that time and the painresolved spontaneously. the cardiology team at this pointrecommended continuing medical management as the patient was inreasonably good control of her pain and was not particularlyinterested in more aggressive intervention at this time. she didhave a mibi that was performed , however , that was equivicalsecondary to cardiac rotation in a setting of atypical chest pain.the cardiology team felt that it was not necessary to cath thispatient , however , they did recommend noninvasive studies of herlegs , pvr's and avi's as an outpatient to evaluate possibleclaudication.disposition: the patient was discharged on march , 1994.medications on discharge: lopressor 100 mg b.i.d. andisordil 10 mg t.i.d.; insulin 10 units nph , q am. follow-up care:the attending on the case was dr. brockie and the patient is tofollow-up with dr. allen salasar in ram gaatauer hospital clinic.dictated by: billy shierling , m.d. ii11attending: augustine heineman , m.d. ya8  yw771/6920batch: 0790 index no. r4rvb851t9 d: 5/25/95t: 5/25/95