818414680prgh772386815590276/4/1999 12:00:00 amdischarge summarysigneddisadmission date :06/04/1999report status :signeddischarge date :06/20/1999principal diagnosis :1. metastatic anal carcinoma .2. probable post-obstructive pneumonia .3. hypercalcemia resolved .principal procedure :( 1 ) abdominopelvic ct with oral contrast on 6/4/99 , which showed changes status post abdominoperineal resection with left lower quadrant colostomy ;( 2 ) bilateral low attenuation inguinal masses ;( 3 ) left lower lobe lung nodules consistent with metastatic disease .( 4 ) low attenuation lesions in the liver possibly consistent with metastasis .( 5 ) chest ct on 6/15/99 , without contrast , which shows a large right hilar mass , with multiple nodular opacities in bilateral lungs .history of present illness :mr. service is a 58 year old gentleman with a history of anal squamous cell carcinoma , who is admitted with a history of fevers .the patient was initially diagnosed in 03/98 with a 6 cm rectal mass .biopsy , at that time , showed squamous cell carcinoma .a staging ct , at that time , showed no evidence of inguinal lymph node .the patient was treated with 5-fu , mitomycin , as well as xrt with complete remission .however , in 09/98 , the patient was noted to have recurrent anal mass with inguinal lymphadenopathy .an inguinal biopsy , at that time , showed a squamous cell carcinoma .the patient was treated with cisplatin and taxol x4 cycles , which was completed in 3/4/99 .the patient was noted to have partial response to this .on 3/26/99 , the patient underwent an abdominoperineal resection and a reconstruction rectus flap .his hospital course was complicated by postoperative fevers , which were treated with keflex .however , since that time , the patient has had persistent multiple perineal non-wound healing with drainage .the patient initially presented on 6/4/99 , with a three week history of fevers off of antibiotics .past medical history :metastatic anal squamous cell carcinoma as above ; status post abdominoperineal resection ; status post pilonidal cyst removal .allergies :no known drug allergies .medications :tylenol p.r.n.; darvocet p.r.n.family history :positive for father with lung carcinoma .social history :the patient smoked 1-2 packs per day x13 years .he quit in 1988 .he denies alcohol use .the patient is married .he lives in clark ker with his wife .they have one daughter and two grandchildren .the patient is formerly a self-employed gift shop owner .physical examination :vital signs :temp 97.3 , pulse 84 , bp 130/70 , respiratory rate 16 , spo2 93% on room air .heart :regular rate , no murmur , rubs , or gallops .lungs :decreased breath sounds on the right , clear on the left with crackles at the apices .abdomen :non-tender , positive bowel sounds , with several well healed scars .a colostomy bag was intact .perineal exam was significant for surgical wounds x3 , with granulation tissue .no obvious purulent material or abscesses were noted .neuro :the patient was alert and oriented x3 .hospital course :the patient was initially admitted to the surgery service with a history of fevers .during his hospital course on the surgery service , he remained febrile .he was initially treated with ancef .an infectious disease consult was obtained and antibiotics were discontinued .the patient remained febrile off of antibiotics and was noted to have an elevated white blood cell count .a chest x-ray obtained on 6/14/99 revealed a right upper lobe infiltrate and cefotaxime and flagyl were started for a probable post-obstructive pneumonia .on 6/15/99 , a repeat chest ct was obtained , which showed a very large right hilar mass with multiple pulmonary nodules .ct , surgery , and pulmonary consults were obtained regarding further diagnostic evaluations .in addition , the patient was also noted to be hypercalcemic and was treated with iv fluids and pamidronate .the patient was subsequently transferred from the surgery service to the oncology-d service for further management on 6/16/99 .briefly , his hospital course by systems on the oncology-d service :( 1 ) infectious disease - the patient was continued on cefotaxime and flagyl for a probable post-obstructive pneumonia .per consult with the pulmonologist , it was not felt that the patient would likely benefit from any sort of procedure or stenting .the decision was made to continue the patient on chronic antibiotic therapy .the patient was discharged on iv ceftriaxone , as well as oral flagyl with plan to continue iv ceftriaxone for one week and then switch to p.o. augmentin .in addition , the patient 's surgical wounds were cultured to r / o any evidence of a wound infection .wound cultures from his buttock region revealed 1+ acinetobacter , as well as 2+ diphtheroids with rare enterococci .a perirectal culture showed normal fecal flora , and a second wound culture also revealed diphtheroids and coagulase negative staphylococcus .these were thought to be contaminants , and the patient was not treated for wound infection .( 2 ) pulmonary - on 6/17/99 , the patient was noted to have markedly increased o2 requirements , with o2 sats noted in the low 80% on room air .this increased to 90-93% on four liters nasal cannula .the patient was noted to have increased wheezes on pulmonary exam .a stat portable chest x-ray revealed markedly increased opacification in the right hemithorax , with increased markings on the left , which was consistent with pulmonary edema .an ekg was obtained , at that time , which showed sinus tachycardia at a rate of 125 , with normal axis and no acute st changes noted .the patient was given iv lasix with improvement in his o2 saturations .it was also thought , at that time , given the patient 's immobility that a pulmonary embolus was also a likely cause of the patient 's hypoxia .however , at that time , the decision had been made to make the patient dnr / dni , and it was not felt that an aggressive workup for pulmonary embolus was indicated at that time .throughout the remainder of the patient 's hospitalization , his respiratory status was stable .( 3 ) metastatic anal carcinoma / code status - given the advanced nature of the patient 's disease and his failure to respond to chemotherapeutic measures , upon discussion with the patient , the patient 's wife , and the treatment team , the decision was made to pursue comfort measures , and the patient was made dnr / dni .it was felt that aggressive workup was not indicated at that time .the goal of the patient 's treatment was for maximum comfort and pain control .( 4 ) hypercalcemia - the patient had been noted to be hypercalcemic with a calcium of 13.3 .he was treated with aggressive iv fluid hydration , as well as pamidronate with normalization of his calcium level .discharge instructions :the patient was discharged on one week of iv ceftriaxone with p.o. flagyl , with a plan to change iv ceftriaxone to p.o.augmentin after one week .in addition , the patient was to receive dressing changes via sggh .the plan was for the patient to remain at home until he and his wife felt that hospice care would be necessary , at which time , they would transition to an inpatient hospice unit .discharge medications :vitamin c 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.; colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.; motrin 600 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n.; indocin 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. ( for tumor fever ) ; flagyl 500 mg p.o. q.8h.; darvocet-n 100 mg 1 p.o. q.4-6h. p.r.n. pain ; zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.; zinc 220 mg p.o. b.i.d.; ensure 1 can q.i.d.; ceftriaxone 100 mg q.d. x7 days ; augmentin 250/125 mg p.o. t.i.d. to start after ceftriaxone d / c 'd ; albuterol inhaler 2 puffs q.4-6h. p.r.n. wheezing .condition on discharge :poor prognosis .discharge disposition :the patient was discharged to home on 6/20/99 with sggh care .dictated by :chpo pulse , m.d. ix97attending :taange q. pulse , m.d. vp96 wr363/6981batch :84089index no. rdoxyy8gt0d :06/25/99t :06/25/99cc :1. taange q. pulse , m.d. ke9