record date: 2114-03-16  march 16, 2114 brice short, m.d.671 foundation streetlambertville, ok  66399 re:craft, lloydmrn:26649180 dear dr. short: today i had the delight of seeing your patient mr. craft for the possibility of central nervous system vasculitis.  as you know, he is a 64 year old, right-handed man with an extensive past medical history for a rheumatological disease.  his past medical history, briefly, is that he was diagnosed with lupus in 2103 and at that time he had a butterfly rash, he complained of chronic fatigue and he also had what was considered temporal lobe seizures which were characterized as complex partial type events, and elevated double-stranded dna of 1:80 and ana of 1:512 with a homogenous pattern.  all of these suggested that the patient did have lupus.  he was treated for approximately three years with prednisone and he notes that after medications were added by dr. taliyah hoffman, his symptoms and seizures went away.  since that time, he has had a recurrence of symptoms which includes fullness of his face and neck, pressure within his head.  he considers himself to have vascular headaches with facial weakness, ringing in his ears, numbness and tingling of his left hand and arm, excessive salivation and increased appetite. in describing his headache, he noted that it is primarily a headache which is there every day and has a combination of throbbing sensation as well as throbbing quality.  it is worse in the frontal temporal area and is not associated with nausea, vomiting or paraesthesias.  there is no family history of migraines as well.  also during his headache events, he does not notice any decrease in his appetite or any nausea or vomiting. past medical history:  as per above.  medicval issues include bipolar ii with ____________ diagnosed in 2110, hypothalamic gonadism, hypothalamic hypothyroidism and questionable history of migraine headaches.   his current medications include lamictal, risperdal, testolactone, chromisene, levoxyl, altace for hypertension, ibuprofen p.r.n. and prednisone p.r.n.   he is allergic to penicillin, lozol, bee stings and allopurinol.  there is a questionable history to aricept which he feels that the use of this medication made his current symptoms come out of remission.  brice short, m.d.re:craft, lloydmrn:266491803-16-14page 2   family history is remarkable for insulin dependent diabetes mellitus in father and father also had heart disease.   social history:  he is a former stage manager.   neurological exam:  he was awake, alert, oriented x 3.  attention was normal.  speech was fluent, without dysarthria or paraphasic errors.  there is no memory deficit or agnosia.  the patient gave a very detailed history of events and no further detailed mental status testing was performed.  cranial nerves:  bilateral visual fields were full.  disks were sharp.  fundus was clear.  extraocular movements were intact.  there was no nystagmus.  he had normal facial sensation and symmetry.  hearing was grossly normal.  uvula, tongue and palate were midline.  motor examination revealed normal tone and bulk with normal strength.  deep tendon reflexes were symmetrical.  there was no upper motor neuron sign.  coordination and gait were normal.   overall impression:  64 year old, right-handed male with a history of lupus in the past.  his recent blood work shows that his double-stranded dna was negative.  taking into consideration his current constellation of symptoms and his mri reports that i evaluated which were completely normal except for small vascular disease, at this time he does not fit with the diagnosis of central nervous system vasculitis.  he was told that he is at a high risk for having a stroke secondary to (1) having high blood pressure and (2) having an elevated cholesterol.  if it is possible to maintain his blood pressure in good control and start a cholesterol-lowering agent, he is to discuss this with you, and also consider starting aspirin 81mg po q.d. for primary prevention of heart disease.  he was informed that it is possible that there is some element of his immune system fluctuations and possibly his hormonal therapies may be contributing to some of his symptomatology but the diagnosis or etiology of these symptoms is not clear.   thank you for letting me take part in your patient's healthcare. sincerely,    clarence k. hart, m.d.   brice short, m.d.re:craft, lloydmrn:266491803-16-14page 3   cc:mr. lloyd craft009 buchanan stopp, ok  21785 yf:ln:4843/dd:3-16-14/dt:3-22-14     not reviewed by attending physician 