328684718 | amhc | 86771385 | | 7802284 | 11/12/2003 12:00:00 am | recurrent l4-5 herniated disc , l5-s1 spinal stenosis , insulin dependent diabetes | signed | dis | admission date: 5/11/2003 report status: signeddischarge date: 8/21/2003primary diagnosis: l4-l5 , l5-s1 herniated nucleus pulposus.procedure: revision decompression at s1 with iliac crest graftfusion. instrument fusion with a later iliac bonegraft.history of present illness: the patient is a 68-year-old male witha history of lumbar spinal stenosis ,status post l3-l4 , l4-l5 foraminotomy , left-sided l5-s1 foraminaldecompression , and l4-l5 laminectomy with new l4-l5 , l5-s1herniated nucleus pulposus , and lower back pain with radicularsymptoms. he described his back pain as 80% of his complaint , and20% is his radicular symptoms. the pain is greater on the rightthan on the left. he has had conservative management. hecomplains of bowel and bladder changes with decreased rectal tone ,and control with urine and feces. he denies any lower extremityweakness or numbness throughout his perineum. he was recently seenin the i ieldwall health care emergency room on 1/11/02 , for low backpain and sciatica; however , he left ama. he presents for electivedecompression and instrument infusion of his lumbar spine.past medical history: obesity , hypertension , diabetes mellitus ,coronary artery disease , gi bleed. ahistory of seizure disorder and peripheral neuropathy.past surgical history: bilaterally total knee arthroplasty;shoulder surgery; aortic valve replacement ,times two; cardiac catheterization; hydrocele repair.medications: please see nurse's note.allergies: coumadin , is not a true allergy , however , he has beenunable to achieve therapeutic inr.social history: he is a reformed smoker and drinker. he is aretired salesman.physical examination: pertinent neurologic findings. bilaterallower extremity edema. light touch isintact throughout with slight decrease in bilateral feet consistentwith neuropathy , left greater than right. decreased sensation.motor strength is 5/5 with the quads , hams , gs , ta , ehl. the leftside fatigues sooner than the right. a negative clonus. dtrs areequal bilaterally quads , hams and achilles. capillary refill isless than two seconds.mri from 6/17/02 , reveals left-sided l5-s1 herniated hnp withforaminal narrowing.the ekg shows no st elevation or depression; however , there is noprior study for comparison.laboratory values: potassium 4.7. hematocrit 38.5. inr 1.0.urinalysis negative.hospital course: the patient underwent lumbar spine decompressionwith l4-s1 instrument infusion with augmentationof the iliac crest bone graft. postoperative course wasuneventful. the patient remained afebrile , hemodynamically stable.autologous blood was necessary. he was required to maintain ahematocrit above 30. he remained afebrile. normal perioperativeantibiotics were given , however. his p.o. intake was delayedsecondary to delay in return of gi function. he did have anepisode of dark emesis early in his postoperative course onpostoperative day #1/2. he was slow to mobilize with physicaltherapy. this was in part secondary to his pain level and alsointermittent confusion , for which a medicine consult was obtained.kayexalate was given for elevation of his potassium; otherwise , hisconfusion resolved with decrease of his narcotic medications.physical therapy was able to resume. he was able to advanceappropriately. hospitalization was prolonged secondary to waitingfor a rehab placement. at the time of discharge , his incision wasclear , dry and intact.he was discharged to the _____ rehab with the followinginstructions. discharge medications: oxycontin , percocet , andcolace , in addition to preoperative medications. activity:weightbearing , as tolerated. when out of bed , must have brace on.followup: follow-up in six weeks. call for an appointment.diet: as tolerated.dictated by: thurman monachino , m.d. yi49attending: israel imondi , m.d. uo4  oe625/303620batch: 21354 index no. n9dp1zp3b3 d: 3/2/03t: 6/24/03