record #345699366374799 | lh | 85547589 | | 8245454 | 8/13/2005 12:00:00 am | shortness of breath , congestive heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 3/30/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 0/2/2005attending: roman damian girgis mdadmitting diagnosis: chf exacerbation.discharge diagnosis: chf exacerbation.discharge condition: stable.history of present illness: the patient is a 56-year-oldgentleman with a history of nonischemic cardiomyopathy with abaseline ejection fraction recently estimated at 10-15% injuly of this year. history of polysubstance abuse includingiv drug abuse , internasal cocaine , history of hepatitis c ,history of depression , celiac sprue , history of insulin-dependentdiabetes mellitus , chronic renal insufficiency with a baselinecreatinine ranging from 1.8-2.4 , history of bipolar disorder ,history of non-st elevation mi with a negative stress test in4/20 , who presents on march , 2005 after sustaining a fallat home. patient lives on the third floor of his building andhas difficulty secondary to dyspnea on exertion with ambulationup steps. per patient , patient was walking up steps and feltincreasing dyspneic and secondary experience a fall. ems wasnotified and patient was brought to the hey county hospital .  upon presentation to the sman hospital , patient reportsother additional symptoms of chf exacerbation includingprogressive dyspnea on exertion , orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnaldyspnea and cough productive of yellow phlegm dating back to mostrecent discharge from hospital on january , 2004 when patientwas admitted for similar complaint of chf exacerbation. patientwith multiple , multiple admissions in the last year to two yearssecondary to chf exacerbation with exacerbations felt to besecondary to medication noncompliance as well as dietarydiscretion.past medical history: as stated.medications on admission: include lasix 100 mg t.i.d. , regularinsulin sliding scale , lisinopril 7.5 mg p.o. q.d. , ativan 0.5 mgq.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia , spironolactone25 mg p.o. q.d. , amlodipine 10 mg p.o. q.d. , plavix 75 mg p.o.q.d. , lantus 15 units sc q.h.s. , protonix 400 mg p.o. q.d.allergies: patient with allergies to multiple medicationsincluding aspirin , codeine , tetracycline , nsaids , ibuprofen ,benadryl , compazine , penicillin. additionally of note , patientshould not receive beta-blockage given history of cocaine abuseand ongoing cocaine use.social history: patient lives on the third floor of hisapartment building. former tobacco user. patient refused todiscuss polysubstance abuse at the time of admission.family history: noncontributory.vital signs on admission: patient was afebrile at 96 , pulse of84 , blood pressure 150/99 , respiratory rate of 20 , o2 sat 100% onroom air. patient was quite combative on admission , though it isunclear exactly the etiology of the patient's agitation.physical examination on admission: remarkable for elevatedjugular venous pressure with pulsation observant the ear at 90degrees , estimated approximately 18 cm of water. patientaddition with rales approximately one-half to two-thirds upbilaterally on chest exam. cardiac exam: patient regular rateand rhythm , no murmurs , rubs or gallops were appropriated.patient's lower extremities were felt to be warm andwell-perfused with 2+ lower extremity edema to the hipsbilaterally.laboratory values on admission: remarkable for sodium of 127 ,hyponatremia felt to be secondary to chronic chf exacerbation.potassium of 5.1 , bicarb of 19 , creatinine elevated at 2.6 upfrom baseline of 1.8 , glucose elevated at 377 , hematocrit stableat 34.5 and bnp was recorded on admission at greater than assay.ekg on admission revealed normal sinus rhythm with a heart rateof approximately80 with t-wave inversion in v5-v6 which were similar to priorechocardiograms. chest x-ray obtained on admission revealedpulmonary vascular congestion with flank pulmonary edema andbilateral pleural effusions. no infiltrate was appreciated. assuch , patient was admitted for evaluation and management of chfexacerbation. chf was felt to be secondary to medication anddietary noncompliance as previously mentioned.hospital course by system:1. cardiovascular:a. ischemia: patient with no evidence for chest pain orischemic injury. at the time of admission , chf exacerbation notfelt to be due to recurrent ischemia but rather medicationindiscretion. of note , patient with multiple prior troponinleaks ranging from 0.10 to 0.12 on prior admissions. not felt tobe secondary to ischemia necessarily but rather due secondary toelevated filling pressures.b. pump: patient with decompensated heart failure on admissionnot felt to be in a low cardiac output state but rather justvolume overloaded. patient was subsequently diuresed using bothiv lasix and p.o. torsemide. at the time of discharge , patientfelt to be relatively euvolemic though will likely requirefurther outpatient evaluation and ongoing diuresis given hiscontinued congestive heart failure. patient with difficultyadhering to a 2 liter per day fluid-restriction diet , wouldrecommend further nutritional outpatient evaluation andcounseling regarding his fluid status given poor cardiacfunction. at the time of discharge , patient on 100 mg oftorsemide b.i.d. with relatively good urine output and i/o ofapproximately negative 0.5 to 1 kg per day , would recommendintensive outpatient chf management including multidisciplinaryapproach using heart failure nursing. patient advised to usescale and record daily weight , that there have been issues in thepast with compliance. additionally , patient's aldactone wasdiscontinued secondary to hyperkalemia and instead patient wasstarted on isordil/hydralazine for hemodynamic support.c. rhythm: patient stable from the perspective , maintained ontele monitoring with no events over his hospital course.2. renal: patient with acute renal failure on admission withcreatinine elevated to 2.6. with ongoing diuresis and correctionof volume overload , patient's creatinine corrected to a baselinevalue. at the time of discharge , patient's creatinine was 2.0.recommend rehab monitoring of renal function including creatinineand bun every three days until patient on a stable dose oftorsemide and felt to be euvolemic , given concern or risk foracute renal failure during ongoing diuresis.3. endocrine: patient with a history of insulin-dependentdiabetes maintained on lantus with regular insulin sliding scaleper outpatient regimen.4. psych: patient with a history of bipolar disorder ,maintained on depakote. additionally , patient with a history ofinsomnia managed with ativan 0.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n.patient with a history of bipolar disorder treated with depakoteper outpatient regimen.medications at time of discharge: include hydralazine 10 mg p.o.q.i.d. with a hold parameter for systolic blood pressure lessthan 100 mmhg. regular insulin sliding scale , isordil 10 mg p.o.t.i.d. , multivitamin , norvasc 10 mg p.o. q.d. , torsemide 100 mgp.o. b.i.d. , plavix 75 mg p.o. q.d. given aspirin allergy ,depakote er 250 mg p.o. q.h.s. , nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d. withappropriate substitution for formulary ppi , lantus20 units sc q.h.s. p.r.n. medications to include tylenol , ativan0.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia , atrovent neb 0.5 mg nebt.i.d. p.r.n. shortness of breath , ultram 50 mg p.o. q.8h. p.r.n.pain.ongoing medical issues and outpatient issues:1. patient will require further aggressive outpatient chfmanagement including ongoing diuresis using p.o. torsemide.patient does put out well to p.o. torsemide , though of note hedoes have compliance issues with regards to daily fluid intake.2. additionally , would recommend further titration ofhydralazine and isordil to maximize hemodynamic support.3. additionally , given hyperkalemia on admission with peakpotassium reaching 6.0 , patient's lisinopril and spironolactoneheld at the time of discharge. would recommend reinstitution ofpatient's ace inhibitor particularly as an outpatient withlow-dose lisinopril perhaps starting at 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. withintensive monitoring of potassium.4. additionally , would recommend further diabetic teaching as anoutpatient given patient's poor compliance.5. strongly feel patient would benefit from involvement in a chfprogram either through gon ce orthrough other program.follow-up appointment: patient to follow up with primary carephysician , dr. marion salser , at the pressou healthcare center .  please call for follow-up appointment.escription document: 6-3780740 lmssten teldictated by: roche , alexanderattending: ary , colton louiedictation id 4685534d: 5/16/05t: 5/16/05[report_end]