923469577 | rtch | 84878000 | | 0383124 | 10/27/2004 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/29/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/22/2004attending: kip abram skokowski mdprincipal diagnosis:chemotherapy toxicity , atrial fibrillation , dehydration , colitis ,liver failure.associated problems/diagnoses:hypotension , diabetes mellitus , esophagitis , congestive heartfailure.history of present illness:ms. linsenmayer is a 68-year-old woman with metastatic breast cancerthat was first diagnosed in 1999 , and she is status postlumpectomy with lymph node dissection and multiple chemotherapyregimens. she is currently on xeloda with excellent response;per dr. cagan , her outpatient oncologist , she has virtually noevidence of metastatic disease on ct. over the past few months ,the patient has had chronic problems with nausea and decreasedappetite. this has become especially acute over the past week ,and as a result , her chemotherapy is now on hold. she has alsohad some worsening diarrhea , for which she was prescribedimodium , but because of ongoing issues with compliance , it wasfelt that she was not taking enough at home. during anoutpatient visit with her cardiologist , her blood pressure wasnoted to be 90/50 , so her dose of atenolol and lasix wasdecreased. of note , the patient is status post a recentadmission to mh for digoxin toxicity , so this medication is nowalso on hold. of note , the patient is not currently on coumadindespite a history of atrial fibrillation due to a history of gibleeding , possible interactions with her chemotherapy regimen ,and ongoing issues with medication compliance. the patient wasadmitted for rehydration , management of nausea/vomiting/diarrhea ,and control of her pain and other symptoms.review of systems:nausea/vomiting x several months , diarrhea approximately sixtimes per day , worsening over the past week with green liquidstool , no blood in stool or vomit , no abdominal pain , no urinarysymptoms.past medical history:metastatic breast cancer ( diagnosed in 1999 , status postlumpectomy and lymph node dissection , formerly on numerouschemotherapy regimens including adriamycin/cytoxan , taxol ,taxotere/herceptin , gemcitabine ) , atrialfibrillation/supraventricular tachycardia , hypertension ,hypercholesterolemia , cholecystitis , diabetes mellitus ,esophagitis.admission medications:lasix 20 mg q.d. , aspirin 325 mg q.d. , xeloda 1500 mg b.i.d. ( twoweeks/one week off ) , zofran 8 mg t.i.d. , p.r.n. nausea , compazine10 mg q.i.d. p.r.n. nausea , protonix 40 mg b.i.d. , atenolol 75 mgq.d. , lomotil 1 mg b.i.d. , trazodone 50 mg q.h.s. p.r.n.insomnia , percocet 325/5 mg p.r.n. pain , ativan 1 mg q.i.d.p.r.n. anxiety , metformin 850 mg b.i.d. , vioxx 12.5 mg q.d.allergies:penicillin.family history:the patient has several uncles and cousins with cancer , but sheis unsure of what type.social history:the patient lives with her daughter and grandson. she has nohistory of tobacco or alcohol use.physical examination:vital signs: temperature 97.9 , pulse 101 , bp 80/66 , respiratoryrate 16 , o2 sat 99% on room air.general: alert , spanish-speaking , no acute distress.heent: perrl , eomi , poor dentition , op clear.neck: no lad , from , supple.chest: ctab.cv: irregularly irregular , s1 , s2 , no murmurs/rubs/gallops.abdomen: soft , distended , mild tenderness to palpation in thelower quadrants bilaterally , slightly tympanitic , normoactivebowel sounds , no hepatosplenomegaly.extremities: warm/well perfused , trace dp/pt pulses , noclubbing/cyanosis/edema , ulcer on left large toe , severelycracked and dry skin on hands and feet.neuro: cranial nerves ii through xii grossly intact , 5/5 strengththroughout.laboratory values:significant for creatinine 1.3 , glucose 137 , wbc 9.6 with 28polys and 29 bands , hematocrit 38.1 , total protein 5.2 , albumin2.0 , alt 41 , ast 18 , alk phos 61 , total bilirubin 2.5.an ekg showed atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular responseat approximately 140 beats/minute. no st or t wave changes.hospital course:1. gi: colitis: given the patient's persistent and chronicnausea , vomiting , and diarrhea , there was significant concern forsmall bowel obstruction on admission. however , a kub andabdominal ct were both negative for small bowel obstruction. shewas originally kept n.p.o. for bowel rest , and a nasogastric tubewas placed with significant drainage. stool studies were sentincluding c. difficile , ova and parasites , cecal leukocytes , andshigella/salmonella/yersinia/campylobacter studies , all of whichwere negative. because of the concerning nature of the patient'ssymptoms , surgery consult was called , however they felt that herproblems were likely nonsurgical in nature. cts performed twodays and five days after admission showed identical findings ofright-sided colitis. they remained largely unchanged.nevertheless , the patient experienced continued nausea andvomiting and also continued diarrhea throughout this time. onceher nasogastric tube output decreased significantly ,approximately one week after admission , the tube was removed andthe patient was started on p.o. , and her diet was advanced astolerated. from that point on , the patient had no nausea orvomiting , and she is currently tolerating a full diet.nevertheless , she continues to have mild diarrhea , now twoepisodes per day as compared to6 to 8 episodes per day prior toadmission. in the end , the workup for the underlying cause ofher nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea has been negative. it istherefore our suspicion that her symptoms are most likelysecondary to toxicity from her chemotherapy medication , xeloda.of note , the patient also has other signs of xeloda toxicity ,including possible hepatotoxicity ( see below ) as well as severecracking and drying of the skin on her hands and feet.2. hepatitis: a ct performed on admission to evaluate for smallbowel obstruction showed a significantly cirrhotic and fattyliver with no masses. on admission , the patient's totalbilirubin was 2.5; however , her bilirubin levels escalatedprecipitously to a maximum of 17.6. at the same time , thepatient developed clinical manifestations of this , includingscleral icterus and jaundice. also , as her albumin levelsdecreased to below 1.5 , she developed significant ascites andperipheral edema. gastroenterology consult suggested a rightupper quadrant ultrasound , which was negative for obstruction , ahepatic mri , which also showed a cirrhotic and fatty liver , andalso a diagnostic/therapeutic ir guided paracentesis , whichdrained 1 liter of sterile fluid. hepatitis serologies were alsosent , and the patient was hepatitis a and b negative , but cpositive; however , her viral load was less than assay , and herafp was within normal limits. a rheumatologic workup forautoimmune hepatitis was also negative. because of the acutenessand the timing of her presentation , it was felt that her liverfailure was likely secondary to a combination of hepatitis andalso toxicity from her xeloda.on discharge , the patient's hepatic function had been improvingsignificantly for three days , with her albumin increasing , herinr decreasing and her bilirubin levels also decreasing. ondischarge , her total bilirubin was 16.0 down from 17.6 , heralbumin was 1.9 up from 1.5 , and her inr was 1.6 down from 2.6.it is anticipated that as the patient's nutritional statuscontinues to improve , her hepatic function will continue tonormalize with resulting normalization of her laboratory values.3. cardiovascular: on admission , the patient was in atrialfibrillation with rapid ventricular response at the rate ofapproximately 140 beats per minute. she was also hypotensive ,with a blood pressure of roughly 90/60. she was placed oncardiac telemetry , which recorded rapid a. fib. up to the 170s.as a result , she was given iv lopressor with decreased heart ratebut also significant reduction in her blood pressure requiringfluid boluses. after 24 hours , after her blood pressure hadstabilized following the administration of intravenous fluids ,she was started on a diltiazem drip at 5 mg per hour , whichhelped to establish stable rate control in the 80s with continuedatrial fibrillation. at the same time , the patient was loadedwith digoxin , but her levels were high; given that the patientwas status post a recent admission for digoxin toxicity , thismedication was subsequently held. in one incident , the patientdeveloped a temporary junctional rhythm for approximately 5minutes with a heart rate in the 50s. at that point , input waselicited from the cardiology consult service , who thought thather symptoms were likely secondary to the diltiazem drip.however , given concern for a tachy-brady syndrome , thepossibility of an implantable cardiac pacemaker was discussed.however , the patient did not have any recurrence of thejunctional rhythm. a tte was obtained , which showed an ejectionfraction of 60% with trace mr and moderate tr , left and rightatrial enlargement , and normal left and right ventricularfunction. once the patient was again taking p.o. medications ,her diltiazem drip was changed to p.o. diltiazem. for the nextseveral days , the patient had several episodes each night of 3 to5 beat runs of nsvt. however , on the three days prior todischarge , the patient had no events on telemetry , and her heartrate was stable in the 60s to 80s , with a blood pressure runningfrom 90-100/50-60. shortly before discharge , the patient alsodeveloped episodic shortness of breath , which was attributed tomild pulmonary edema , and she responded well to boluses of ivlasix. as a result , she was restarted on aldactone witheffective gentle diuresis. the plan on discharge will be tofollow her volume status carefully and to adjust her diureticregimen as needed to maintain her volume status with continuedimprovement in her hepatic function.4. endocrine: the patient has a history of diabetes mellitus ,and her metformin was held on admission secondary to an elevatedcreatinine. as a result , she was started on a lispro slidingscale. given that she was n.p.o. for several days , she was notgiven any insulin and her blood sugars remained stable in the low100s. after she again started taking p.o. , she was restarted ona sliding scale , and she maintained excellent blood sugar controlbetween 100 and 150. a hemoglobin a1c obtained during thisadmission was also within normal limits. of note , the patienthas a left toe ulcer , and was seen by orthopedic surgeries andoutpatient totally before admission.5. heme: the patient had an inr of 2.6 on admission secondary tocirrhosis and poor nutrition. as a result , she was given vitamink subcu n.p.o. as needed. as noted above , despite a history ofatrial fibrillation , the patient is not on coumadin at homesecondary to poor med compliance. at home , she was only onaspirin , but this was also discontinue during the admissionsecondary to continued guaiac positive stool. nevertheless , herhematocrit remained stable throughout her admission and she didnot require any transfusions. as dvt prophylaxis , the patientwas kept on pneumo boots throughout the admission. at one point ,she was noted to have left upper extremity swelling greater thanthe right upper extremity , but an ultrasound was negative fordvt. as noted above , on discharge , the patient's inr wasimproving secondary to improved nutrition. she will bedischarged without any anticoagulation at present , however thiscan be further reevaluated as an outpatient by her cardiologistand oncologist.6. fen: the patient was initially rehydrated with normal saline ,however this was changed to d5w plus 3 amps of bicarb since shedeveloped a bicarb gap. once this gap was closed , she was givengentle normal saline as maintenance fluids. once the patientstarted taking significant p.o. , her iv fluids were discontinued.the patient's electrolytes were also repleted as necessary.plan on discharge will be to continue following her electrolytesclosely to prevent further exacerbation of her cardiacarrhythmias.7. pain: the patient was given oxycodone p.o. and morphine ivfor pain. the patient was previously on vioxx at home fororthopedic pain related to her diabetes , however , given recentdata suggesting possible cardiotoxic effects of vioxx , this willbe discontinued , and she will be sent home with oxycodone p.r.n.for pain.8. onc: the patient's xeloda is currently on hold since many ofher symptoms leading up to this admission were likely secondaryto chemo toxicity. as noted above , the patient has otherevidence of chemo toxicity as well , including significantly driedskin on her hands and feet. the patient's outpatient oncologist ,dr. willard brixius , followed her closely during this admission , andshe will follow up with the patient regarding possible changes toher chemotherapy regimen.9. disposition: the patient was seen by the physical therapyservice shortly before discharge , and they noted that shedisplayed difficulty even moving from the bed to the chair , whichis significantly below her baseline of being able to ambulateindependently. as a result , after extensive discussions with herfamily , it was decided that the patient will be best served bygoing to a rehab facility for continued closed supervision of hermedical problems , supervised administration of her medicationregimen , continued strength training and conditioning , and alsocontinued nutrition. once the patient is able to be lessdependent on outside assistance , she can be sent home with eithera home health aide or visiting nurse for continuedrehabilitation. of note , the patient's code status wasestablished by her outpatient oncologist as dnr/dni. this wasconfirmed with the patient during this hospitalization.physical examination on discharge:vital signs: temperature 98.3 , pulse 80 , blood pressure 104/64 ,respiratory rate 20 , o2 sat 99% on room air.general: alert , no acute distress , icteric sclerae , and slightlyjaundiced.respiratory: ctab except for few crackles at the basesbilaterally.cv: irregularly irregular s1 , s2 , 1/6 sm at the left uppersternal border , no rubs/gallops.abdomen: soft , distended ( decreased from prior ) , mildly tender topalpation diffusely , normoactive bowel sounds.extremities: warm/well perfused , nontender , 1 to 2+ pedal edema ,1 to 2+ left upper extremity edema , significantly dry/crackedskin on hands and feet.laboratory values on discharge:sodium 137 , potassium 4.3 , bicarb 26 , creatinine 1.0 , glucose 61 ,calcium 7.8 , magnesium 2.2 , wbc 15.1 with 87% polys , hct 36.8 ,platelets 101 , 000 , inr 1.6 , alt 18 , ast 46 , alk phos 103 , t. bili16.0 , total protein 5.8 , albumin 1.9.discharge medications:lispro sliding scale ( if blood sugar less than 135 , give 0 unitssubcutaneously; if blood sugar is 125 to 150 , then give 2 unitssubcutaneously; if blood sugar is 151 to 200 , then give 3 unitssubcutaneously; if blood sugar is 201 to 250 , then give 4 unitssubcutaneously; if blood sugar is 251 to 300 , then give 6 unitssubcutaneously; if blood sugar is 301 to 350 , then give 8 unitssubcutaneously; if blood sugar is 351 to 400 , then give 10 unitssubcutaneously ) , multivitamin one q.d. , protonix 40 mg q.d. ,diltiazem 60 mg t.i.d. , aldactone 25 mg q.d. , oxycodone 5 to 10mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain , trazodone 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n.insomnia , compazine 5 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. nausea , vitamin k 5 mgp.o. q.d.disposition:the patient was discharged to rehab in stable condition.physician follow-up plans:the patient will be discharged to rehabilitation facility , whereshe will continue to be given supportive care for ongoingsymptoms of her enteritis and hepatic failure. she will alsoreceive physical therapy and nutrition to help her return to herbaseline function. prior to discharge from rehab , her medicationregimen should be simplified as much as possible to preventfuture confusion over her medications , as has happened in thepast.on discharge from rehab , the patient should be sent home witheither a visiting nurse or home health aide , as insurancepermits. at that point , she will follow up with dr. snellbaker , herprimary care physician; dr. fushimi , her outpatient oncologist; anddr. khalili , her outpatient cardiologist.escription document: 5-4163960 emssten teldictated by: dhillon , tobyattending: pankau , wilford edwindictation id 5564979d: 3/1/04t: 3/1/04