157037048 | ch | 48921038 | | 095036 | 10/13/1998 12:00:00 am | degenerative joint disease rt. knee | signed | dis | admission date: 10/16/1998 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/11/1998admission diagnosis: osteoarthritis , right knee.history of present illness: the patient is a 70 year-old gentlemanwho has had bilateral knee pain for anumber of years. the pain has been worse on the right than theleft. his symptoms have limited his ambulation and his ability toclimb stairs. he was seen preoperatively for evaluations and hadtwo units of autologous blood available prior to a planned righttotal knee replacement.past medical history: significant for osteoarthritis of his knees ,hypertension , benign , tachycardia , historyof prostate cancer in 1991 , history of diverticulitis and historyof sleep apnea.past surgical history: significant for status post radicalprostatectomy in 1991 , status post leftretinal repair in 1990 and status post cystoscopy in the 1970s forbenign bladder polyps.allergies: the patient had no known drug allergies.medications on admission: 1 ) hyzaar 50/125 mg p.o. b.i.d. 2 )lopressor 50 mg one p.o. q. am. 3 )lopressor 25 mg one p.o. q.h.s. 4 ) norpace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. 5 )lodine q. day. 6 ) clonazepam 0.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. 7 ) nasocortsprays , two sprays q. day. 8 ) zyrtec 10 mg p.o. q. day. 9 )multivitamins. 10 ) aspirin one p.o. q.o.d. 11 ) vitamin e. 12 )vitamin c.social history: the patient quit smoking twenty years ago. hedrinks a glass of wine q. day. the patient ismarried and resides in den hunt do the plan afterdischarge was to discharge to home. his occupation is an attorneyin private practice.diet: no added salt and low fat.review of systems: significant for wearing glasses and some visualdeficits in the left eye secondary to theretinal tear. neurologically , the patient has a history ofosteoarthritis of his cervical spine and intermittent numbness ofthe hands. pulmonary-wise , the patient has a history of sleepapnea and uses a c-pap machine. cardiovascularly , the patient hasa history of hypertension , tachycardia , but no history of coronaryartery disease , myocardial infarction , chest pain , congestive heartfailure or deep venous thrombosis. gastrointestinal-wise , thepatient has a history of diverticulitis and was hospitalized in the70s. he has a history of polyps that were negative on colonoscopythree years ago. genitourinary-wise , the patient has a history ofstress incontinence and impotence. musculoskeletal-wise , he has ahistory of osteoarthritis. his primary care physician was dr.ronnie glos .physical examination: vital signs: blood pressure 150/88 , heartrate 60 , height 5'8" , weight 240 lbs. heentshowed a normal pharynx with no carotid bruits. extraocularmovements are intact. his lungs were clear to auscultationbilaterally. his heart was regular rate and rhythm with normal s1and s2 and no murmur. his abdomen was obese , but soft andnon-tender with no evidence of organomegaly and some well healedprevious surgical incisions. neurologically , his cranial nerveswere intact. on physical examination , he was seen to havebilateral genu varus. the right was greater than the left. he hadactive range of motion of the right knee from 0 degrees to 90degrees. he was stable with varus and valgus stress. he had 1+dorsalis pedis pulse and posterior tibial pulses and no edema. hewas neurovascularly intact except for mild diminution of sensationon the dorsum of the right foot and medial right ankle. he wasinstructed to discontinue taking nsaids and aspirin prior to hissurgery and given a single dose of coumadin 7.5 mg p.o. on thenight prior to his surgery.hospital course: on august , 1998 , the patient was admitted tothe hospital where he underwent right total kneearthroplasty. tourniquet time for the initial procedure was 86minutes. he received perioperative antibiotics. he was started oncoumadin in the postoperative period as well and put on the totalknee pathway postoperatively. he received epidural anesthesia inthe perioperative period. he was followed by the pain service forcontrol of his pain. the cardiology service saw him onpostoperative day number one and noted that he was doing well withno intraoperative events. the physical therapy department saw thepatient postoperatively and he was placed on the cpm machine. bypostoperative day number three , the patient was more comfortable.he was getting out of bed for his meals. his hematocrit was stableafter initially receiving some autologous blood transfusions. hehad postoperative x-rays of his knees taken. these were reviewedby the attending surgeon , dr. quinton almenar . plans were made for himto be discharged to home on postoperative day number four with vnaservices. an attempt was made for the patient to be seen by dr.ruffin for some complaints of foot pain , dr. munaz for complaintsof shoulder pain and dr. lobregat for some complaints of cervicalspine problems. at the time of this dictation , it was not certainwhether these consults would be completed prior to this patient'sultimate discharge home , but if not , they will be done on anoutpatient basis.medications on discharge: 1 ) aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.o.d. 2 )clonazepam 0.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. 3 )norpace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. 4 ) colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 5 ) ironsulfate 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. 6 ) lopressor 50 mg p.o. q. am and 25mg p.o. q. pm. 7 ) multivitamins one tablet p.o. q. day. 8 )coumadin to keep the pt/inr between 1.5 and 2.0. 9 ) nasocort 2puffs inhalation q. day. 10 ) zyrtec 10 mg p.o. q. day. 11 )hyzaar one tablet p.o. b.i.d. 12 ) tylenol p.r.n.disposition: the patient was discharged to home with vna services.he should continue exercises for improved range ofmotion.follow-up: the patient will be followed up by dr. emmitt byers asan outpatient in ten to fourteen days from discharge.vna services will draw pt/inrs two times per week and these resultswill be sent to the patient's primary care physician who willfollow them for dr. damon fenrich . the duration of coumadinizationshould be six weeks.activity: the patient is weight bearing as tolerated on the rightlower extremity.complications: there were no complications:dictated by:attending: moshe landen , m.d. dc.d hp25  ro565/3564batch: 2251 index no. bwomaie83 d: 1/8/98t: 1/8/98