admission date :2016-03-22discharge date :2016-04-04service :medicinehistory of present illness :75 yo f with cad s/p mi x4 ( s/p lad stent. '09 and rca stent x 2 in. '00 and. '04 ) , chf with ef 55% , paf , inducible vtach s/p aicd placement , sick sinus syndrome s/p pacer and copd with restrictive lung disease .per daughter , pt was in her usoh until two days prior to admission when she was noted to have a superficial ulcerations on her foot with erythema .pt was taken to bridgewater chelsea soldier 's home hospital and started on unasyn iv .pt awoke later that night and felt unsteady on her feet and sustained a mechanical fall .per daughter , pt did not note chest pain , tachycardia , had a good po intake and no noted seizure activity .pt was in severe " back pain " as per daughter which was treated with dilaudid .ct of the neck revealed a possible c1 fracture and the x-ray at the osh revealed intratrochanteric fracture of the right femur .pt was subsequently transferred to hallmark health system for orthopaedic evaluation .in monica at hallmark health system , pt was seen by the trauma service where a ct of the neck revealed no fracture ( however , the c-collar was maintained secondary to pain ) .the orthopaedic service recommended emergent repair of the intratrochanteric fracture secondary to instability .the monica stay was complicated by runs of afib to 133 requiring iv lopressor .ros :pt is very sob at baseline , not on home ox , no cp at rest , no le edema , no pnd , stable orthopnea ( 2 pillows ) .pt ambulates 10 feet with significant fatigue as per daughter .( ? dec in exercise tolerance ) .cmed ccu change include discontinuation of coumadin secondary to inc risk of upper gi bleed .digoxin , norvasc and imdur was also discontinued .hpi :75 yo f with cad s/p stenting , vt , sss s/p pacer , copd , presented to osh 2016-03-21 with foot ulceration .started on unasyn , in hospital suffered mech. fall with hip fx .transferred to hallmark health system 03-22 .medically eval not high risk surgery , preop beta blocker given .orif with repair of neck fracture 2016-03-23 .expected prolonged extubation course given copd history , as with colon ca resection surgery .in pm extubated , transferred to floor 2016-03-23 .late 03-23 found with afib and rvr , given beta blocker with min. response , started dilt. drip .received 2 mg dilaudid for pain o/n .this am with respiratory failure , continued tachycardia on dilt. gtt .transferred to unit and urgently intubated ( labs below. )of note , a ngt by xray was not in correct position ? lungs -> possibly used for medication administration this am .brief hospital course :a/p :75 y f s/p mi x4 , numerous cath , paf , inducible vtach s/p aicd and pacer with severe copd / restrictive lung disease s/p fall with intertrochanteric fracture .as per cmed ccu , pt requires emergent repair of intertrochanteric fracture to preserve neurovascular function .pt is a moderate risk for a needed emergent non-cardiac procedure .pt is medically cleared for procedure. , likely has some mile rate related ischemia .1. cards :--- pre-op b-blocker with goal hr < 70--- no real utility in mibi / cath prior to procedure gien previous caths with no significant lesions to be intervened on .--- v-tach : pt has aicd in place , however b-blocker should contorl vtach for now .--- b-blocker iv , dilt prn for paf--- hold coumadin for afib given hx of upper gib and surgery in am--- continue asa , plavix--- romi , check am ecg2. copd / restrictive lung disease :--- nebs / mdi prn--- no need for steroids now--- expect prolonged wean given previous history of prolonged wean s/p colonic resection--- incentive spirometry for atelectasis3. hip fracture :--- pain control with diluadid , tylenol--- lovenox tonight x1 , hold am dose per cmed ccu--- pt to or in early am4. anemia :--- iron studies--- tsh---no need for transfusion currently , keep hct > 305. hypokalemia :--- 60iv k now--- continue po k--- check lytes in pm6. cellulitis :--- continue unasyn--- hold off on x-rays for now7. dm :--- riss - tight glucose control pre-op8. ppx :--- protonix , lovenox , r boot as per cmed ccu9. diet :npo10. code :full --> dnr / dnicmed course :orif with repair of neck fracture 2016-03-23 .had expected prolonged post-op extubation in pacu given copd history , as with colon ca resection surgery .in pm extubated , transferred to floor 2016-03-23 .late 03-23 found with afib and rvr , given beta blocker with min. response , started dilt. drip .received 2 mg dilaudid for pain o/n .on 03-24 am p/w with respiratory failure , continued tachycardia on dilt. gtt.transferred to unit and urgently intubated .of note , there was a question of misplaced ngt .when ngt tube was pulled out , it was noted to have respiratory-like secretions .concern for aspiration of mediations to lungs .however , evaluation of cxr revealed ngt coiled in esophagus .pt 's respiratory distress is most likely on setting of aspiration pneumonia vs. pneumonitis in the setting of depressed mental status secondary to post-operative narcotics .pt was pan-cultured and switched from unasyn ( started at osh for foot ulcer ) to zosyn .vanco was added for possible nosocomial infection .cta was performed which was negative for pe , but revealed bilateral patchy ground glass opacities c/w aspiration vs. pneumonia vs. edema .pt was weaned down on ventilator , minimal secretions noted .on 03-27 , pt was noted to have depressed mental status off all sedating medications ; mental status improved over the course of the day .pt was diuresed .atrial fibrillation was rate-controlled on dilt drip .dilt drip was discontinued and metoprolol titrated up .cardiac enzymes were cycled in setting of rapid af and were flat .initially , pt was noted to be dry with low fena and given ivf .then , noted to be volume overloaded and diuresed with lasix .pt had depressed mental status on transfer to cmed in setting of narcotics .she was then started on propofol while intubated .head ct was negative for acute bleed , mass effect , or stroke .mental status improved during times when propofol was held .on 03-27 , pt was noted to have significantly depressed m.s. off propol improved off sedation .all sedating medications including prn narcotics were held and mental status cleared somewhat .s/p hip fx repair : started on lovenox for anti-coagulation .given standing nsaid , tylenol for pain control .opiates used very sparingly in setting of ms changeon transfer to floor team from cmed active issues and plan included :resp failure / copd :initially got steroids upon intubation .off for days now .extubated on 03-31 .still tachypneic and hypoxic on room air .lung sounds fairly clear .? copd vs atelectasis as cause of hypoxia .on blake , nancy pe less likely- atrovent standing .prn albuterol only given a fib with rvr- inhaled steroids- obtaining pcp set of reginaldfever :in the icu .had received unasyn , vanc , zosyn during hospital course for cellulitis and other unclear reasons , including possible vent associated pna .no true source found .afebrile > 24 hours off abx .- culture if spikes .no abx unless source founda.fib with rvr - has ppm , so can have lot of nodal agents .now rate controlled on metop 125 tid and dilt .30 qid .titrate prn .- continue nodal agents- consider anti coag for cva prevention , but wait until ambulating bettercad : on asa , b blocker , ace .no statin .need to clear with familyheme - anemic .unclear baseline .possible anemia 03-02 operative blood loss .follow hct daily goal > 28neck : never had c spine cleared by neurosurg .had fall pta with ? fx on initial ct , neg fx on f/u ct .- flex / ext films done- will clear with neursurg prior to removing hard collarovernight on pt 's first evening on the floor , she had episode of desaturation with inc o2 requirement ( 4l -> 6l -> sating 91% on nrb ) - cxr with worsening - non responsive to lasix .family meeting held and pt made clear wishes after extubation that she does not want to be intubated again and made dnr / dni .no bipap .now pt lethargic and min responsive .all four children in pts room and agree on cmo - want to d/c c-collar and start morphine ggt .discussed with night float cover dr. dennis commander and dr. mike french .although dr. ray will be covering pt today , dr. stephanie wilson spoke with family this morning and has noted that pt is cmo .ep was called to deactivate pt dual chamber icd as per family wishes .on exam , pt lethargic , responsive to pain but not voice , with nrb in place ; obvious inc wob .iv in r foot for access .family at bedside .afebrile ;bp : 159-161-139-98 ( after morphine )/ 69 hr : 148 --> 88 ; rr : 28-40 o2 : 94% nrbas above , made cmo after meeting with nf team and family and reconfirmed with primary medical team on 04-02 .start morphine ggt and titrate to comfort .d/c 'ed all lab draws / vitals .prn nebs for comfort .family at bedside and aware and in agreement of plan .morhpine ggt titrated up to 18 mg / hr by monday morning and pt expired 04-04 at 7:40 am .