552130229 | wfh | 14069798 | | 462423 | 1/4/1997 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 2/14/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/20/1997principal diagnosis: pneumonia.significant problems:1. non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.2. coronary artery disease.3. status post coronary artery bypass graft.4. chronic atrial fibrillation.5. hypercholesterolemia.6. congestive heart failure.history of present illness: the patient is a 70-year-old man witha history of non-insulin-dependentdiabetes mellitus , coronary artery disease , status post threevessel coronary artery bypass graft in 1993 , chronic atrialfibrillation , and hypercholesterolemia , who presents withcomplaints of recent flu-like symptoms times two days , includingright sided chest pain exacerbated by breathing and coughing , andnonproductive cough with chills. the patient is followed by dr.strubbe of the hufi general hospital , and by dr. torri of theonas medical center cardiology team. the patient recalls flu-like symptoms inearly april 1996 , but otherwise , was well until two days agowhen he noted the onset of right sided , sharp chest pain which waswell localized to the right chest , worse with breathing and chestmovement. the patient denied any similarity to previous anginalpain , which he noted is more substernal in nature and has notoccurred in months. the patient was concerned that the pain wascardiac and took two sublingual nitroglycerin without relief , andtherefore , presented to the swebrothers hospital emergencyroom. the patient denied any nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis ,shortness of breath , abdominal pain , melena , constipation ,diarrhea , and hemoptysis , at the time of admission. he noteshistory of chronic venostasis disease in his lower extremities withbilateral decreased sensation and episodes of neuropathy pain whichhas not changed recently.past medical history: significant for: 1. coronary artery diseasestatus post three vessel coronary arterybypass graft in 1993. 2. non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitustimes 15 years. 3. hypercholesterolemia. 4. history of chronicatrial fibrillation. 5. peripheral neuropathy in bilateral lowerextremities.past surgical history: three vessel coronary artery bypass graftin 1993 , left carotid endarterectomy in1987.social history: no tobacco history , occasional alcohol use.the patient is a part time practicing lawyer.family history: father died of coronary artery disease , no historyof diabetes mellitus or high blood pressure.admission medications: glipizide 5 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 10 mg p.o.q.supper , mevacor 20 mg p.o. q.a.m. ,norvasc 5 mg p.o. q.a.m. , coumadin 5 mg p.o. q. sunday , saturday ,tuesday , and thursday , and 2.5 mg p.o. q. monday , wednesday , andfriday , nitro-dur patch 8.4 mg q.a.m. off in p.m. , alprazolam up to2 mg p.o. q.day p.r.n. , lasix 20 mg p.o. p.r.n. swelling , usuallyone time per week , and tylenol p.o. p.r.n.allergies: no known drug allergies.physical examination: at the time of admission , vital signsincluded a temperature to 101.4 , pulse 92 ,respirations 28 , blood pressure 170/74 , and o2 saturation 89% onroom air with 94%-95% on two liters o2. heent examination revealedmoist mucous membranes without lesions. pupils were equal , round ,and reactive to light. extraocular muscles were intact. neck hadno lad or jvd. lungs had crackles present with egophony and e to achange over the right low lateral lung field , otherwise , clear toauscultation bilaterally. heart had an irregular rhythm with aregular rate. there was a ii/vi systolic ejection murmur at theright upper sternal border and left lower sternal border. therewas normal s1 and s2 , no s3 or s4. abdomen was soft , nontender ,and nondistended with positive bowel sounds. extremities revealed1+ bilateral pitting edema with bilateral changes of chronicvenostasis , 1+ pedal pulses on the left , but left foot slightlycool to touch. there was no palpable pulse in the right lowerextremity , but good capillary refill and warm. neurologicalexamination revealed cranial nerves ii-xii were intact bilaterally.motor was intact bilaterally. sensory was intact to light touchwith decrease in sensory to light touch bilateral lowerextremities. deep tendon reflexes were 2+ bilaterally.laboratory data: white blood cell count was 21.12 , hematocrit38.8 , and platelets 191. inr was 2.1 , ptt 42.3.sodium was 136 , potassium 4.2 , chloride 98 , bicarbonate 25 , bun 16 ,creatinine 1.2 , and glucose 279. admission ekg was significant foratrial fibrillation at 76 beats per minute with evidence for coldleft bundle branch block. chest x-ray was significant for rightmiddle lobe infiltrate consistent with pneumonia.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the floor foradministration of intravenous antibiotics. thepatient did well overnight. in the a.m. of 4/5/97 , the patienthad an episode of hypoxia with increased requirement for oxygen andultimately required 100% face mask for 93% o2 saturation. thepatient denied any anginal chest pain , nausea , vomiting , orincreased shortness of breath. a stat ekg revealed no changes.stat chest x-ray revealed bilateral pulmonary edema. thisresponded well to iv lasix. however , the patient continued torequire increased amounts of oxygen over the next two days whereinhe had further episodes of pulmonary edema requiring p.r.n. ivlasix. during this time , blood cultures from the time of admissiongrew out pneumococcus times two which were sensitive to penicillin.the patient's broad coverage antibiotics were then changed to ivpenicillin. an echocardiogram obtained on 4/5/97 revealed a highnormal left ventricular size with mild concentric hypertrophy ,hypokinesis with inferior septum , and inferior posterior region ,ejection fraction 45% , normal rv size and function , left atrialenlargement , mild to moderate mitral regurgitation , and no aorticstenosis or insufficiency. the patient was initiated on captoprilwhich was then increased titrating with the patient's bloodpressure over his hospital stay. the patient , during his hospitalcourse , was also noted to have increased blood sugars to the 450range. therefore , he was started on a sliding scale insulinregimen.the patient improved with regards to his hypoxia and , on themorning of 6/15/97 , he was breathing room air with an o2saturation of 93%. his lung examination was significant for onlyrare rhonchi on the right side. chest x-ray of 3/4/97 revealedimprovement of his right lung pneumonia with persistence ofbilateral effusions consistent with his episodes of pulmonaryedema. fingerstick glucose was 164 reflecting an overallimprovement and decreased need for sliding scale insulin. thepatient was felt to be well and ready for discharge.discharge medications: norvasc 5 mg p.o. q.a.m. , coumadin 2.5 mgone p.o. q. monday , wednesday , and friday ,and two p.o. q. sunday , saturday , tuesday , and thursday , nitro-durpatch 0.4 mg per day to be removed at night , captopril 25 mg p.o.t.i.d. , lasix 40 mg p.o. q.a.m. , penicillin-v 500 mg p.o. q.i.d.times seven more days , mevacor 20 mg one p.o. q.p.m. , and glipizide5 mg one p.o. q.a.m. and two p.o. q.p.m.disposition: the patient is to be discharged. he will be stayingwith family and is to follow up with the aer medical centercardiology team in 10 days. he is also to follow up with hisilos bao hospital doctor within three weeks. the patient is notexpected to have any disability and should recover well. he hasbeen instructed to call should he develop a high fever , furtherchest pain , or shortness of breath.dictated by: jeff l. bret muntean , m.d. yj93attending: drew tauteoli , m.d. wl39  qk234/4635batch: 84050 index no. p4mj0m1ju2 d: 6/15/97t: 4/9/97cc: 1. pedro blogg , m.d. kk102. dr. goeller sum p community memorial hospital