record date: 2089-09-20personal data and overall health	mr. parrish is 72 y.o.  unfortunatley had a stroke leaving him with l-hemiplegia in 2088.  he is living independently with the help of a home health aide and friends.  has seen dr. ashley of cardiology, dr. scott or opthalmology, dr. insley of endocrinology, dr. lane of neurology and dr. johnathan kiefer of neurology.  reason for visit	established patient.  annual pe.problems	  hypertension	      pt. has hypertension.  he is currently managed on beta-blocker, ace inhibitor, calcium channel blocker, and diuretic.  bp today is 150/90.  will plan to titrate bp meds.  low-salt diet.diabetes mellitus	      pt. has type ii diabetes.  is now insulin dependent.  he has retinopathy, neuropathy, and nephropathy.  he sees dr. scott of opthamology, and dr. insley of endocrinology  currently taking two insulin shots qd.  he denies hypoglycenia.  he is following an aodm diet.  he has a hemoglobin a1c of 7.8.  	a:  diabetes with neuropathy, retinopathy, and nephropathy.  	p:  quanify microalbumin.  continue neurontin for diabetic neuropathy.  fu with dr. shah for retina checks.  pulmonary problem	      pt. has a h/o asbestos exposure and a h/o tobacco abuse.  pfts have revealed mild to moderate obstructive defect and restrictive defect consistent with these risk factors.  he is currently not sob with his activities.  will fu with pulmonary prn. neuropathy	      patient has neuropathy secondary to diabetes mellitus that is being treated with neurontin.  coronary artery disease	      pt. had an mi in 2060.  had  four-vessel bypass with dr. london rhoades 7/83.  his ifsf for hypokensis with mild mr and dilated la with ef of 69%.  there is discreet upper septal hypertrophy w/o evidence of outflow obstruction.	a:  coronary artery disease with multiple risk factors and preserved ejection function following cabg.  currently w/o evidence of cardiac insufficiency.	p:  modify risk factors of diabetes, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia.  he will take aspirin as an anti-platelet.  he will fu with dr. ashley. hyperlipidemia	      has elevated lipids.  will treat with lipitor.  follow lfts.  low-cholesterol diet.  peripheral vascular disease	      prior to his stroke, pt. had evidence of claudication after walking 400 to 500 feet.  currently w/o claudication at rest or evidence of vascular insufficiency.  pedal pulses are or not palpable.  	a:  peripheral vascular disease.	p:  modify secondary risk factors.  further intervention is warranted.stroke	      pt. had r lacunar stroke 12/29/88 with symptoms of gait unsteadiness, speech slurring, and face drooping.  seen by the stroke service and has been through a rehab hospital.  he has l leg > l arm and l face hemiplegia.  he is currently ambulatory with assitance device at home.  he has a homemaker 3x/week and devoted friends and family.  he is frustrated by his disease, but he is adjusting slowly.  	a:  s/p r-lucunar stroke.  	p:  modify secondary risk factors, continue anti-platelet agent, and fu with dr. kiefer of neurology clinic.  pt. encouraged to do home pt exercises.health maintenance	      discussed seat belt use, low-salt/low-cholesterol diet, aodm diet, stool cards, flexsig, annual eye exams.procedures	  influenza vaccine	 11/3/2087pneumovax	      given right shoulder.s/p coronary artery bypass graft	 6/30/2083s/p tetanus toxoid	 12/31/2080s/p tonsillectomy	      allergies	  sulfa	 rashfamily history	father died of a heart attack.  mother with high bp. one brother with cad, s/p cabg.  one sister died of lung and throat cancer.  sister has lupus.  social history	he is a former banking manager.  he is widowed.  has two daughters and one son, has grandchildren.  he lives alone but has a companion.  has a aremote 30 pk.-yr. h/o smoking.  minimal alcohol.  review of systems	thirteen systems reviewed.  positive findings listed above.  he has had a h/o bladder infections.  he has dentures.  he wears glasses.  he has lost approximately 30 lbs. in the past year secondary to stroke.  he has some nocturia (2-3x per night).  no sob, no chest wall pain.  no hypoglycemia.  he also has painful neuropathy below his knees.  otherwise unremarkable in detail.  vital signs	  blood pressure:	 150/90   weight:	 195   poundsheight:	 69.5   inchespulse:	 72   respiratory rate:	 16   physical exam	  general appearance	pleasant gentleman of german extraction, sitting in a wheechair.skin	multiple seborrheic keratoses and cherry angiomas w/o suspicious lesions.  heent	perrla.  eomi.  tm normal.  op normal.  there is av nicking with sharp discs and there is a l-facial droop.  neck	no thyromegaly.  carotids w/o bruits.nodes/lymphatic	no adenopathy. chest	lungs clear to ascultation.cor/cardiac	sternotomy scar. rrr, s1 s2, soft i-ii/vi sem at the lsb.abdomen	bs present, nt nd. no hernias present.  no masses present.rectal exam	prostate firm and slightly enlarged w/o nodules. no masses. stool brown and heme neg.genito-urinary	no testicular lesions.extremity	no edema.  vascular - unable to palpate distal pulses.  femoral are 2+.  carotid are 2+.neurological	cn ii-xii testes and intact.  decreased cn vii on the l.  motor exam reveals l-upper extremity flacid paralysis.  there is atrophy of the l biceps.  the patient had no evidence of contractures.  l-lower extremity with ii/v l iliosoas, 4+5 hip extensors, 3/5 l quadraceps, 3/5 l-ankle dorsoflexion, and 3/5 ankle plantar flexion.  there is no increased tone or rigidity on the l side.  dtrs reveal 3+ reflex at the l patellar ankle jerk w/o clonus.  r toe is downgoing.  sensation intact to light touch and pinprick.  reduced vibration sense in ankle and toes.  gait not assessed as he is in a wheel chair.  vascular carotids and femoral pulses are 2+.  dp and anti-tib are not appreciated.medications	  captopril	 50mg po tidecotrin (aspirin enteric coated)	 325mg po qdinsulin isophane (nph)	 14units sc qpminsulin n	 28units  qamisordil	  po tidlipitor	 10mg po qdlopressor	 50mg po bidmaxair inhaler	  inh neurontin (gabapentin)	 300mg po bidnorvasc (amlodipine)	 bid po nph regular	 14units  qamregular insulin	 10u inj qamdisposition and plans	i will ask him to fu dr. kiefer of neurology, dr. ashley of cardiology, dr. insley of endocrinology  he will follow an amod diet, low-salt/low-cholesterol diet, flexsig., stool cards.  fu with me in three month's time or sooner as needed.  he will fu with dr. scott of opthalmology.cc:  drs. ashley/cardiology - ccr 412snyder/opthalmology - insley/endocrinology - end 6lane/neurology - neu 265j. kiefer/neurosurgery