176318078fih418969928872/d70h09475611/03/1993 12:00:00 ammitral stenosisunsigneddisreport status :unsignedadmission date :11-03-93discharge date :11-06-93principal diagnosis :mitral stenosisassociated diagnosis :tricuspid regurgitation , heart failure , chronic atrial fibrillation , chronic ventricular ectopy , chronic obstructive lung disease .adverse drug reactions :epistaxis to coumadin in the past .principal procedure :cardiac catheterization 11/03 .other procedure :pulmonary function test 11/04 .history of present illness :this 68-year-old patient of dr. naka jesc had two episodes of rheumatic fever as a teenager .she has had chronic atrial fibrillation .coumadin has caused bleeding from the mouth and nose on two occasions , on one occasion with prothrombin time 13 , and has been replaced by anti-platelet agents .she has had recurrent syncope since age 6 .she has now had progressive heart failure .a holter showed atrial fibrillation with period of ventricular bigemini .she cut down dramatically on smoking two years ago , but has continued to smoke , although , very recently , she admits to only " two puffs " per day .she has not had hypertension or diabetes , and says he has lowered her cholesterol from 333 to 197 by changing her diet .there is no family history of heart disease .she has been treated with vanceril for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease .she has had one gram per day proteinuria with normal creatinine .she had a partial gastrectomy in 1972 for a " tumor " .she has had an appendectomy and cholecystectomy .medications on admission :digoxin 0.125 mg po q.d. , lasix 40 mg b.i.d. , aspirin held , and vanceril three puffs b.i.d.allergies :transdermal nitroglycerin caused headache .social history :she does not drink .physical examination :heart rate 86 , irregularly irregular , blood pressure 142/86 .neck veins distended .carotids normal .chest clear .apical impulse not palpable .right ventricular heave .s1 normal .s2 narrowly physiologically split with accentuation of p2 .no s3 or opening snap .grade ii systolic murmur at the left lower sternal border .grade ii decrescendo diastolic murmur at the left lower sternal border .diastolic rumble at the apex .liver slightly pulsatile but no enlarged .pulses normal to the femorals with weak dorsalis pedis pulses .superficial varicose veins .no edema .laboratory data :hematocrit 44 , potassium 4.0 , bun 23 , creatinine 1.2 , blood sugar 115 , digoxin 1.4 .electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation , moderate ventricular response , incomplete right bundle branch block , right axis deviation , right ventricular hypertrophy and possible apical infarction .chest x-ray showed left atrial , right ventricular and pulmonary arterial enlargement and interstitial edema with small , bilateral effusions .hospital course :cardiac catheterization was performed without complication from the right neck and right groin on the day of admission .right atrial pressure was 12 with a wave form consistent with tricuspid regurgitation .there was no tricuspid valve gradient .pulmonary artery pressure was markedly elevated at 120/60 .pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was markedly elevated at 38 , with a very large mitral valve gradient .there was little or no aortic valve gradient .fich cardiac output was 3.0 and indexed 2.0 .arterial oxygen saturation was 85 percent .there was minimal mitral valve calcification , normal left ventricular contraction , and 2+ mitral regurgitation into a large left atrium .there was minimal aortic valve calcification , mild ______________ thickening , normal open , and mild aortic regurgitation .there was mild atherosclerosis of the mid left anterior descending .fvc was 1.6 or 58 percent of predicted and fev1 0.95 or 45 percent of predicted .room air arterial blood gas was 56/40/7.45 .because it would be ideal to place a mechanical valve if valve replacement rather that commissurotomy is needed , she was seen by dr. ca shuff of ent for her history of epistaxis .he identified no bleeding source , but felt that the risk of nasal hemorrhage on coumadin could be minimized interventional neuroradiology occlusion of the arteries to the nose bilaterally .the patient was therefore referred to the dr. a eu wave .the procedure could not be scheduled during this admission .the patient is , therefore , discharged after a three day hospitalization , with plans for re-admission for the neuroradiology procedure .this will be followed by a trial of coumadin , and then by mitral commissurotomy or replacement and probable tricuspid annuloplasty by dr. riemund c. wave .in the meantime , lasix dosage is increased .potassium replacement has caused , according to the patient , marked hyperkalemia in the past .discharge regimen :digoxin 0.125 mg q.d. , lasix 80 mg q.a.m. and 40 mg q.p.m. aspirin 1 q.d. , and vanceril three puffs b.i.d.ca shuff , m.d.tr :vw / bmotdd :11-06-93td :11/07/93cc :copies to dr. bodejove at valtawnprinceel community memorial hospital , dr. a eu wave , dr. riemund c. wave , and three copies to dr. ca shuff edited 12/31/93 qm