record #293117028282463 | lh | 83968943 | | 836497 | 9/8/1993 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 9/10/1993 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/14/1993cardiac surgery consult: curt o. maulding , m.d.admission diagnoses: 1. cardiomyopathy of unknown etiology.2. retrosternal chest pain for rule outmyocardial infarction.3. noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.4. history of pulmonary tuberculosis.chief complaint: mrs. troy burrus is a 54-year-old woman from ston chandseu sa with a background history of idiopathiccardiomyopathy and noninsulin-dependent diabetes , and pulmonarytuberculosis who presented with an 20 minute episode of chest painand dyspnea for a rule out myocardial infarction.past medical history: past medical history is remarkable for 1 ) acardiomyopathy of 10 years' duration ofunknown etiology. the patient denies alcohol abuse. there is nohistory of rheumatic fevers in childhood. there is no valvulardefects , and has no known risk factors for coronary artery disease ,aside from her noninsulin-dependent diabetes. the etiology at thispoint is thought to be viral. the patient experiences intermittentepisodes of mild chest pain and chest pressure with exertionapproximately one episode every 2-3 months and is not currently onsublingual nitrates. she has no known coronary artery disease andhas not had a myocardial infarction. 2 ) noninsulin-dependentdiabetes times three years , well controlled on glucotrol 10 mg p.o.b.i.d. and diabetic diet. she has no known diabetic retinopathy ,nephropathy or peripheral neuropathy. 3 ) the patient has a historyof tuberculosis approximately 20 years ago , diagnosed from a lymphnode biopsy of the left neck. she was treated for one year with acombination of medications. she currently experiences no nightsweats , loss or weight , loss of appetite or hemoptysis. she does ,however , admit to a dry cough especially at night which has beenincreasing over the last six months. her bcg status is unknown.past surgical history is remarkable for: 1 ) status post cesareansection times one. 2 ) status post total abdominal hysterectomy ,right salpingo-oophorectomy for metromenorrhagia approximately1991. the patient currently denies any post or perimenopausalsymptoms. 3 ) status post lymph node biopsy of the left neckapproximately 20 years ago for tuberculosis. the patient has noknown drug allergies. family history is remarkable for diabetesmellitus ( father ). the patient is a nonsmoker , denies alcohol abuseor intravenous drug abuse. medications on admission includedigoxin 0.1 mg p.o. q a.m. , lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. , glucotrol 10mg p.o. b.i.d. , k-dur 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. to t.i.d. and capoten 37.5mg p.o. q.i.d.history of present illness: the patient has noted increasingdyspnea and worsening exercisetolerance over the past six months. she was admitted to namen's general hospital under the care of dr. devera in may of 1992 forcongestive heart failure which resolved with diuresis. since thenher baseline exercise tolerance is that she is unable to do a fullload of laundry without getting tired , unable to climb a fullflight of steps without getting tired , but does not experiencechest pain. however , today while walking in her sister-in-law'shouse she experienced severe retrosternal chest pain radiating toher left shoulder and back , which is as great as 10 out of 10 forseverity and lasted for approximately one minute. it was associatedwith dyspnea , sweating and nausea but no vomiting. she alsoexperienced some palpitations. therefore , she had persistent chestpressure and dyspnea on arrival at the amar portraim hospitalemergency room approximately 20 minutes later , at which time thepressure and dyspnea were relieved with two sublingual nitrates.review of systems is remarkable also for chronic cough increasingover the last five months , especially since her capoten dose wasincreased. she denies fever , chills , previous episodes ofpneumonia. of note she was ruled out for active pulmonarytuberculosis during her admission in soba medical center in july 1992.physical examination: on examination on admission , she is apleasant , elderly woman. her vital signsreveal a temperature of 97.4 orally , heart rate of 80 regular ,respiratory rate of 20 and blood pressure of 108/80 supine with noorthostatic hypertension. o2 saturation was 99% on 4 liters. headand neck examination were unremarkable with no evidence ofadenopathy and a normal thyroid gland. respiratory system showedscattered bibasilar crackles but no focal pathology. cardiovascularsystem showed a heart rate of 80 which was regular at full volumewith occasional ectopic beats. there was no evidence of paradoxicalalternates. jugular venous pressure was elevated to 10 cm abovethe angle of louis' and had a prominent cv wave. all pulses werepresent and equal. the cardiac apex was in the sixth leftintercostal space. midaxillary line was volume overloaded incharacter. no thrills or rubs were appreciated , however , there wasdullness to percussion beyond the apex and an s3 gallop was heardthroughout the precordium. the patient had a soft s1 , a iii/vipansystolic murmur heard best at the apex and radiating through tothe left axilla. there was also i/vi mvm which could be brought onwith exercise and lying in the left lateral position. a pi murmurwas also heart similar in character to the mi murmur but heard beston the left sternal border and radiating up the neck. there wasalso an ejection systolic murmur at the left sternal border ii/viin intensity and radiating poorly increased with expiration.abdominal examination was soft , nontender , nondistended. there wasa 12 cm hepar which was soft and nonpulsatile. no spring waspalpable. no masses were appreciated. bowel sounds were present ,and there was no costovertebral angle tenderness. a well healedsubumbilical midline scar was evident. rectal examination showedno masses , guaiac negative brown stool. bimanual examination wasdeferred at this time. central nervous system examination wasgrossly intact. extremities showed pulses to be presentbilaterally and equal. there was no evidence of deep venousthrombosis and no pedal edema or sacral edema were appreciated.laboratory data: laboratory examinations on admission showed asodium of 136 , potassium 3.4 , blood urea nitrogen16 , creatinine 0.8 , and a glucose of 136. white count was 8.2 witha normal differential. hematocrit was 41.2 and platelets 247. ptand ptt were 13.4 and 29.4 respectively. digoxin level was 2.1.chest x ray showed significant cardiomegaly with dilatation of bothleft and right ventricles but minimal congestive heart failure. theelectrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm at 86 beats per minutewith a complete left bundle branch block and no evidence of acuteischemia. there was no change as compared with electrocardiogramsfrom 1/28 .  the initial cpk was 44.hospital course: in summary then the patient is a 54-year-old womanwith cardiomyopathy , noninsulin-dependentdiabetes , who presented now with an episode of chest pain anddyspnea for rule out myocardial infarction and further evaluation.actively she is in hospital where it as follows: 1 ) cardiomegaly ofunclear etiology: last echo done was in 11 of august by dr. pernin whichshowed an ejection fraction of 25-30% with global left and rightventricular dilatation. 2 ) chest pressure and substernal chest painand dyspnea: the patient was placed on the telemetry floor , wasmonitored for 24 hours and a rule out protocol was performed. theck were 44 , 37 , and 34 respectively and there was no evidence ofelectrocardiogram changes on serial electrocardiogram. she did haveone run of 4-beat ventricular tachycardia the first 24 hours ofadmission. potassium was replaced in view of the potassium level of3.4. initial digoxin level was 2.1 and digoxin was held for aperiod of 72 hours. she was continued on her lasix , captopril anda sliding scale nitropaste and was started on one aspirin a day.3 ) noninsulin-dependent diabetes was well controlled on diet andglucotrol and her sugars remained between 100 and 200 throughoutthis admission. 4 ) status post tuberculosis: in view of herprevious tuberculosis status , a ppd was not performed and thepatient was not ruled out for tuberculosis.on review of mrs. ekis 's history and following a rule out for arecent myocardial infarct , it became apparent that her exercisetolerance had diminished dramatically over the past three monthsand that she was already on optimal medications. it was thoughtthat she would benefit from a cardiac transplant evaluation at thispoint and dr. gerathy was kind enough to consult. a transthoracicechocardiogram performed on 1 of february showed once again a dilatedcardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of 15%. there was 2+ ofmitral regurgitation with a pulmonary arterial pressure ofapproximately 60. there was also 3+ or pr and evidence ofsignificant left atrial hypertrophy. no ventricular clicks orthrombosis were seen. however , in view of the dilatedcardiomyopathy , the patient was started on coumadin therapy. an etto2 uptake test was performed on 1 of february and the patient performedfor 3.38 minutes on a cycle ergometer. she experienced on chestpain and there were no obvious electrocardiogram changes. the testwas stopped because of shortness of breath. her o2 uptake wascalculated at 11.4 per kick per minute. in addition her capotentherapy was changed from 37.5 q.i.d. to 50 mg t.i.d. at this pointit became apparent that mrs. stuesse had a significant degree ofcardiac dysfunction. a right-sided catheterization performed on1 of january showed a right atrial pressure of 26 and a pulmonary wedgepressure of 36. it was decided that she would be an excellentcandidate for cardiac transplantation , and a full cardiactransplant workup was initiated. the following tests were sent off ,the results of many of which are still pending: 1 ) one chest x raydetailed above; 2 ) electrocardiogram as detailed; 3 ) urinalysis andsediment which are unremarkable; 4 ) sma-7 with cpk , complete withdifferential , pt , ptt , erythrocyte sedimentation rate , reticulocytecount and bleeding time; 5 ) hla typing and antibody screen whichare pending; 6 ) blood typing; 7 ) dental consult; 8 ) physiotherapyconsult; 9 ) social service consult; 10 ) nutrition consult; 11 )gynecology appointment made as an outpatient and a booking forbilateral mammography was made; 12 ) pulmonary function tests wereperformed; 13 ) noninvasive carotid doppler studies and peripheralarterial noninvasive studies were performed the results of whichare pending; 14 ) echocardiogram as detailed above; 15 ) exercisetest with o2 as detailed above; 16 ) 24-hour urine for creatinineand protein; 17 ) hiv antibody test; 18 ) fasting glucose serumprotein , electrophoresis , cholesterol , triglycerides ,immunoglobulins , hepatitis b and c serology , as well as bloodcultures , sputum cultures and urine cultures were sent; 19 )psychiatric consults , has not been obtained at this point and willbe done as an outpatient; 20 ) virology titers for cytomegalovirus ,ebstein-barr virus , toxoid , measles and varicella zoster were sent;21 ) tft and hemoglobin a1c were sent; and 22 ) right heartcatheterization as detailed above; 23 ) abdominal ultrasound to ruleout gallstones , aortic aneurysm and renal abnormalities were doneand were within normal limits.disposition: at this point the patient will be discharged home in astable but guarded condition. she will be followed bythe cardiology and cardiac surgery departments at the chapstone hospital .  her primary attending dr. mondelli from sontriad university hospitals( telephone number 842 322-9773 ) will be updated as to her program.outstanding consults were be sorted on an outpatient basis and shewill be listed for a cardiac transplant. her discharge medicationsinclude lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. , glucotrol 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,captopril 50 mg p.o. t.i.d , k-dur 20 meq p.o. b.i.d. , coumadin 2.5mg p.o. t.i.d. she will also be sent home on home o2 as required.digoxin will be started at 0.1 mg p.o. q d. pt and ptt levels willbe checked q weekly and the patient's doses changed accordingly.dictated by: rashad f. hamlette , m.d. sf3attending: pasquale r. georghiou , m.d. ed8  cn944/0814batch: 1211 index no. y6qix40f4o d: 6/15/93t: 0/24/93cc: 1. dr. wahlquist , dbates community memorial hospital2. williams s. demmert , m.d. xd03[report_end]