record date: 2077-03-12march 12, 2077urijah whaley, m.d.266 bungalow avecrystal springs, mo 37319re:  otis narvaez     mr #045-61-32-6dear uddin:otis narvaez is a 67 year old man who returned to the office today for follow-up after havingundergone an adenosine pet scan on march 04, 2077.  his previous visit with me occurred onfebruary 19, 2077, where his acute complaint was shortness of breath with any activity.  hedenied chest pain, but did admit to a "tight" feeling down his left arm on occasion.  this was notassociated with activity.  he admits to being a very sedentary person.  the results of his adenosine mibi were abnormal, with abnormal myocardial perfusion, globallv function, and ct coronary angiography.  there were no significant findings on the clinicalevaluation.  the response was non-ischemic, and there were no ekg changes during infusion. the results revealed a small calcified plaque in the proximal lad coronary artery without flow-limiting stenosis.  there was a more heavily calcified plaque visualized in the distal rca whichwas flow-limiting, and there was a moderate amount of stress-induced ischemia on imaging. there was severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction with an ejection fraction of 32%.  thenarrowing in the distal segment of the rca was greater than 70%.  a lipid profile performed following his office visit on february 19, 2077 revealed a totalcholesterol of 182 mg/dl, an hdl of 43 mg/dl, an ldl of 71 mg/dl, and a triglyceride level of342 mg/dl.  he has not been on any cholesterol-lowering medications.  he had undergone previous cardiac catheterization in november 2072, which demonstratedinsignificant coronary artery disease, with an ejection fraction of 63%.since his last office visit, he continues to be significantly short of breath with any activity.  hedenies any chest pain or left arm discomfort.  his current medications include ritalin 20 mg five times daily, ambien 10 mg at hour of sleep,neurontin 900 mg three times daily, lasix 20 mg every other day, lisinopril 60 mg once daily, otis narvaezmr #045-61-32-6page 2march 12, 2077 aspirin 325 mg with oxycodone as needed.  he usually takes these once every other day.  he isnow on 20 units of an insulin preparation that he cannot identify.  he takes this at bedtime.review of systems reveals that he has chronic peripheral neuropathy in his feet.  this causes himto feel imbalanced, and it is necessary for him to walk with a cane.he was diagnosed with diabetes in 2068 and hypertension in 2067.  he also has chronic lowback pain due to degenerative joint disease, as well as lumbar disc disease.  he also hasdegenerative joint disease in his knees.  he receives psychiatric follow-up for his diagnosis ofdepression.  he underwent a gastric bypass procedure at harmon medical rehabilitation hospital in 2068.on january 20, 2073, he underwent a left lingular-sparing upper lobectomy for a t1 squamouscell carcinoma.  on physical examination, he appears healthy, albeit overweight, with a normal affect.  hisweight is 208 lbs, the heart rate is 84 beats per minute, the respiratory rate is 16 per minute, andthe blood pressure is 140/62 mm/hg.  examination of the head, eyes, ears, nose, and throatreveals upper dentures in place.  there is no jugular vein distention, and the lungs are clear. there is increased ap diameter with bilateral gynecomastia.  on cardiac examination, the heartsounds are distant, and there is a regular rhythm, a normal s1, a single s2, and no murmurs,rubs, or gallops.  the lower extremity examination reveals a 2 cm tender superficial area on thedistal right calf.  there is no edema noted.i discussed with otis narvaez and his wife, santiago, my recommendations for a cardiaccatheterization followed by stent placement, as indicated.  he has agreed to this, and dr. yazielkraft will perform the procedure.  his office will call mr. narvaez to schedule thecatheterization.  after leaving the office today, he will have a cbc, a pt, a ptt, and acomprehensive metabolic profile performed.  he will return to see me in the office again in onemonth.best personal regards.sincerely,kenneth z. sellers, m.d./huffcharlene b. bates, rn, bsnscribe for kenneth z. sellers, m.d.