record date: 2083-10-18	cardiology		wetzel county hospital		reason for visit:   mr qazi returns for followup of his coronary disease.	interval history:   he was recently transferred in january to the wch after presenting to the florida hospital orlando with a non st segment elevation mi in the anterolateral zone. he underwent angioplasty and stenting of his proximal lad using a 2.5 x 13 mm cypher drug eluting stent.he has no symptoms of chest pain or pressure, no palpitations dyspnea or orthopnea.he has gained some weight and needs to work on that.	past medical history:   1. cad:-cath 1/73: 80% prox rca stenosis w/ thrombus, mod d1 stenosis, clear lcx.  lv gram ef 69%, normal motion. -cath 9/81: critical proximal ramus lesion.  rca with proximal 40% lesion, patent rca stent. patent left main, apical lad with 99% lesion with l-l collaterals. cfx 35% mid lesion. normal lvedp, no as.  lvf 50-55%.-also with h/o rca stent, unclear where procedure was done and patient unable to recall details.2. htn3. hyperlipidemia		medications (confirmed):	ecotrin  325 mg po dailylipitor  80mg po dailynitroglycerin  0.4 mg sl every 5 minutes prn chest painplavix  75mg po dailytoprol xl  50 mg mg po bidtricor  48mg po daily	family history:   mother: deceased in 60's with leukemiafather: extensive cad, with first mi in 50's.  had mi x7, died in 70s.	social history:   he runs  mason house,a halfway home.  he has h/o drug/etoh abuse but denies x 25 years.  he is not married, no children.tobacco: + for 40 years 2-4ppd.	review of systems:   there are no new findings except as above.all the following a normal or negative: general: unexpected weight gain or weight loss, night sweats fever or chills. head and neck: headaches, dizzy spells hoarseness. respiratory: cough wheezing, sputum production, hemoptysis. cardiovascular: see history above. gastrointestinal: frequent heartburn or indigestion, difficulty swallowing, nausea vomiting jaundice, unusual constipation or diarrhea, black or bloody stools. urinary: frequent urination at night, urinary infections, kidney stones, blood in the urine. neurologic: transient paralysis, seizures, loss of vision in one eye, numbness or tingling in the feet. hematologic: easy bruising, recurrent infections. skin: new rashes or eruptions, poor healing of foot sores, moles changing in size or color. endocrine: polyuria, polydipsia, heat or cold intolerance. musculoskeletal: low back pain, joint pains, joint swelling.physical examination:	-temp:    afebrile-pulse: 60  -resp. rate: 14  -general:   no acute distress.-skin:   no rashes, anicteric.-heent:   unremarkable-neck:   carotids 2+ without bruits. jvp no jugular venous distention.-chest:   clear to auscultation and percussion.-cardiac:   left ventricular impulse discrete and nondisplaced. regular rate and rhythm, normal s1 and s2, with no s3 or s4. there were no murmurs, clicks or rubs.-abdomen:   normal bowel sounds, soft and nontender, with no hepatosplenomegaly or masses appreciated.-extremities:   no edema. 2+ pt bilateral-bp: 120/70  	ekg:   normal sinus rhythm with incomplete right bundle branch block. there are very small q-waves in leads v2 v3 v4 and v5 the tracing is  unchangedselected recent labs:	 in april following his last visit his total cholesterol was 104, triglycerides 70, hdl 40 and ldl 50. glycohemoglobin was 8.5.		assessment and plan:     he is doing quite well at this point and has no symptoms he will remain on his present medications and i will see him again in another year.	quinten b. prado, md pager #82910	cc:  ezra tovar m.d.	signed electronically by  quinten b. prado, mddocument status: final