record date: 2128-02-26lynchburg city health department7609 new hampshire avenuekigali, nj  47798497-045-1949holcomb, dennis8331206002/26/2128date of birth:  12/14/67chief complaint:  he presents today for his annual history and physical after an absence to this office for the past 2 years.past medical history:  includes poorly controlled type 2 diabetes, currently on insulin for the past 33 years, history of left foot infection, erectile dysfunction, onychomycosis of toenails, hyperlipidemia, cad, inferior myocardial infarction complicated by ventricular tachycardia, obesity, diabetic retinopathy, ischemic cardiomyopathy and low testosterone.past surgical history:  include cardiac catheterization, coronary stenting and implantable cardiac defibrillator.drug allergies:  he has no known drug allergies.medications:  include atenolol 100 mg in the morning and 50 mg in the evening, aspirin 81 mg 2 tablets daily, folic acid 1 mg daily, furosemide 40 mg daily, nph 40-42 units once daily, regular insulin for sliding scale, lisinopril 5 mg daily, multivitamin once daily, simvastatin 20 mg at bedtime, b12 250 mcg by mouth daily, vitamin c 1000 units daily, and over-the-counter cholesterol-lowering medication.family history:  father and brother died of cerebral aneurysms, both were hypertensive and smokers, there is also history of cardiac disease in his grandparents.social history:  single, works for the alaska air group in juneau, drinks 1-2 beers a year.  he is a nonsmoker, does not use iv drugs, he is responsible to take care of several sick individuals that are very close to his life, therefore he claims he cannot attention to his own personal health because of caring for others.history of present illness:  the patient presents today for annual physical.  the patient states he has become enlightened recently that when he goes to tim horton's, they pretreated his coffee with sugar as a role and he thinks that is the reason for his diabetic, lack of control over the years.  he has been eliminating concentrated sweets in his diet.  after a while, his blood sugars have gotten much better by his report.  he recently had an eye examination showing stable background retinopathy without any recent changes.  he has had no active podiatry issues over the past 2 months has had no recent chest pain, shortness of breath or pnd.  he sees dr. isaac ulibarri for a cardiomyopathy standpoint.  with his aicd everything seems to be working fine according to him when they interrogate his device.  he reports no fever, shakes, chills, nausea, vomiting or diarrhea.  again, he has had no recent chest pain, pnd, or orthopnea.  he has had no dysphagia, odynophagia, melena, hematemesis, hematochezia, dysuria, hematuria or polyuria.physical examination:  blood pressure is 126/70 in the right arm, temperature 95.6, pulse 78, respirations are 16, o2 sat 97% on room air.  he is 67 inches tall, 222 pounds.  bmi 34.8.  heent:  normocephalic, atraumatic, pupils are equally round and reactive to light and accommodation.  extraocular movements were intact.  he has had minimal wax buildup bilaterally.  tms were intact.  oropharynx was clear without erythema or exudate.  sinuses were nontender.  nostrils were patent.  neck is supple supple without jvd, lymphadenopathy or thyromegaly.  lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally without wheezes, rubs or rhonchi.  heart regular rate and rhythm, normal s1, s2, no murmurs, rubs or gallops were appreciated.  abdomen is soft, nontender, nondistended.  he has a small umbilical hernia that is not protruding and bowel sounds are active.  he has no organomegaly and there is no cva tenderness.  extremities are without clubbing, cyanosis or edema.  he does have significant thickening and brittleness of the toenails of both feet consistent with onychomycosis.  he has no open sores of the feet.  neurologically, he is alert and oriented x3 and grossly nonfocal with intact distal sensation to light touch in both feet.  he has no generalized lymphadenopathy and his joint examination shows no effusions or erythema.assessment and plan:1.  annual physical, preventative maintenance.  the patient had a colonoscopy in 2125 and was told to come back in 2130 because of benign polyps.  i did recommend guaiac stool cards today for home testing purposes.  immunizations are up-to-date.  he did receive an h1n1 and a seasonal flu vaccine through his employer and for private pharmacies.  his pneumovax is due to be a booster in 2 years' time.  we are recommending a psa and a dre annually starting today.  labs were also drawn in the office for cbc, cmp, and lipid profile.  the patient is declining zostavax at this time.  we will recommend a followup in 1 year for an annual physical.2.  poorly controlled type 2 diabetes.  the patient has now eliminated concentrated sweets from his diet, although i do suspect dietary noncompliance beyond table sugar.  recommend checking a hemoglobin a1c today, urine for microalbumin, lipid panel and creatinine as well as a bun and a gfr.  i would recommend continuing his insulin nph 42 units daily, but we may need to recommend an endocrine consult if his a1c remains elevated despite dietary improvement.  we did recommend aggressive weight loss and exercise as this is a major impediment to his glucose control.  i would recommend follow up in 3 to 4 months.3.  obesity.  we will check a tsh, lipid panel and glucose to ensure that he is in good metabolic balance.  i do suspect continued poorly controlled diabetes given his past history.4.  cad with history of dvt.  he has had an icd interrogated recently.  we will check a lipid panel today.  we would like to strive for an ldl less than 70 given his high risk status, i would recommend changing his steroid to a higher dose if required at that point.______________________________robert lincoln, m.d.escription document:0-37751462 jssten teldd: 02/26/28dt: 02/26/28dv: 02/26/28