record #145361827835167 | p | 57703522 | | 5966980 | 8/29/2007 12:00:00 am | pulmonary fibrosis | unsigned | dis | admission date: 1/28/2007 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 0/13/2007attending: talsky , jarvis clair m.d.principal diagnosis: diabetes.additional diagnoses: cirrhosis and ipf.services: gms chihistory of present illness: the patient is a 76-year-old femalewith a history of ipf , on home oxygen at 3 l nasal cannula atbaseline , cryptogenic cirrhosis , and insulin-dependent diabetesmellitus who was recently admitted from 10/26/07 through 6/12/07for hyperglycemia and volume overload , who presented withhyperglycemia and weight gain. of note , during the patient'sprevious admission , she was diagnosed with a urinary tractinfection as well as spontaneous bacterial peritonitis based on adiagnostic paracentesis , which showed greater than 250neutrophils. during that admission , the patient was treated fora urinary tract infection and the sbp and was sent home on acourse of oral cefpodoxime. of note , during that previousadmission , the patient was also hyperglycemic and was dischargedon an insulin regimen of lantus 90 with good aspartate slidingscale. at home , the patient's blood pressures were in the 200 to300s and at times even higher. over the week prior to admission ,it was noted that the patient gained somewhere from about 8 to 10pounds with increasing abdominal girth and lower extremity edema.as noted above , the patient's fingersticks were noted to beelevated in the 300s and so her lantus was titrated from 90 unitsdaily to 100 units by the visiting nurse. the patient waspreviously discharged on lasix 40 mg twice daily , which wastitrated up to 80 mg twice daily also by the visiting nurse andher primary care physician. the patient had no additionalshortness of breath , and her oxygen sat was unchanged on her homedose of o2. she had no chest pain , no cough , and no fevers. nonausea , vomiting , or diarrhea. the patient had finished a 7-daycourse of cefpodoxime on the day of admission. the patient'smental status was unchanged as felt by the daughter.past medical history:1. idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis , on 3 l home o2.2. insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.3. cryptogenic cirrhosis complicated by ascites and esophagealvarices as well as possible hepatic encephalopathy.4. hypertension.5. status post cholecystectomy.medications at home:1. fosamax 35 mg p.o. weekly.2. caltrate 600 mg plus d 1 tabler daily.3. cefpodoxime 200 mg daily , which was completed the day priorto admission.4. clotrimazole troche orally four times daily.5. dexamethasone 1 mg p.o. t.i.d.6. lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d.7. lantus 100 units subcutaneously every morning.8. combivent 2 puffs inhaled 4 times daily.9. lisinopril 20 mg daily.10. nadolol 10 mg p.o. daily.11. prilosec 20 mg p.o. daily.11. bactrim ds 1 tablet p.o. daily.allergies: no known drug allergies.social history: the patient lives with her daughter , lescano , whois her healthcare proxy and can be reached at 011-451-8298. thepatient has never drunk alcohol , smoked , and never used anyillicit drugs. the patient is originally from clear a rieholl andspanish-speaking.family history: unremarkable.physical examination on admission:vital signs: the patient was afebrile. temperature was 96.9 ,heart rate was 62 , and blood pressure was 90/50. she wasbreathing 16 times and was saturating 99% on her home baselinedose of oxygen at 3 l.heent: notable for tongue that showed thrush.neck: jvp was difficult to asses but thought to be slightlyelevated. there was no lymphadenopathy.lungs: dry inspiratory crackles at both bases.cardiovascular: the patient has slow heart rate with normal s1and s2. no murmurs , rubs , or gallops.abdomen: slightly distended , soft , and nontender with noguarding and positive bowel sounds.extremities: remarkable for 3+ edema , pitted , to the knees.neurologic: no asterixis and no focal deficits.laboratory data on admission: electrolytes were remarkable forbun and creatinine of 65/1.6 as well as a potassium of 6.0.albumin was noted to be 2.6. cbc showed a white count of 8.51 ,hematocrit of 34.7 , and platelets of 92 with less than 5% bands.studies: ekg reveals sinus bradycardia at 50 beats per minutewith normal axis and normal intervals and nonspecific stabnormalities , unchanged from prior ekgs. a chest x-ray showedunchanged coarse bilateral opacities with no acute process.impression: the patient is a 76-year-old female with history ofidiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and cryptogenic cirrhosiscomplicated by ascites and esophageal varices , who was admittedwith hyperglycemia and volume overload.hospital course by system:1. endocrine: the patient was admitted with hyperglycemia andsugar in the 600s. the patient was initially started on insulindrip at 4 units per hour , and her sugars quickly normalized. thepatient was transitioned over to subcutaneous insulin regimenthat included lantus and q.a.c. aspartate as well as slidingscale. the patient's fingersticks remained labile throughoutthis admission and at times were elevated in the 300s and othertimes were normal in the range of 70 to 90. the patient'sinsulin was titrated , and she was discharged on a regimen thatincluded lantus 90 units subcutaneously daily as well asaspartate 28 units subcutaneously before each meal. it wasnoticed that the patient had the most difficulty withpostprandial sugars often after lunch and dinner. therefore , werecommended that if she continues to have hyperglycemia , that itwould be best to titrate the q.a.c. aspartate. it would be bestto avoid titrating the lantus too much given that her fastingsugar in the morning was often normal. the patient had nohypoglycemic episodes during this admission. of note , thepatient was not previously on q.a.c. insulin dosing at home;however , following discharge from rehabilitation , it was thoughtthat this would not likely be the best regimen for her. this wasdiscussed with the patient's family and caregivers who wereamenable to this idea , however , will likely need furtherteaching.2. gi: the patient has a history of cryptogenic cirrhosiscomplicated by ascites and esophageal varices. the patient wasthought to be grossly volume overloaded due to her cirrhosis andhypoalbuminemia on admission. the patient was initially diuresedwith iv lasix with good results. the patient did have a bump inher creatinine due to this aggressive diuresis and her lasix washeld for several days , but her oral lasix was restarted prior todischarge. the patient was discharged on 60 mg of p.o. lasixtwice daily. the patient on admission was thought to havesignificant amount of ascites based on abdominal exam. thepatient had recently completed a course of treatment forspontaneous bacterial peritonitis and had no abdominal tendernessbut did have distention. an abdominal ultrasound was obtained asa diagnostic paracentesis was considered given that the patienthad an episode of confusion; however , abdominal ultrasoundrevealed only a small lot of ascites that was not amenable toparacentesis. the patient has a history of esophageal varicesand was continued on her nadolol for prophylaxis. the patientwas continued on her bactrim for sbp prophylaxis. the patientdid have an episode of confusion and delirium during thisadmission , which was felt to be likely due to hepaticencephalopathy. the patient's delirium improved with theinitiation of lactulose. the patient was discharged on lactulose30 ml q.i.d. , which we titrated so that the patient has at least3 bowel movements daily. at the time of discharge , the patientwas alert and oriented. of note , the patient was not started onaldactone for management of her volume overload given that shewas admitted with hyperkalemia and has a history of elevatedpotassium.3. neurologic: the patient had had one episode of deliriumduring this admission where she was confused , did not know whereshe was , and was not interacting with her family appropriately.the patient had a workup at that time , which included aninfectious workup , which revealed no evidence of infection. thepatient was started on lactulose , which had to be an administeredinitially by retention enema as she was refusing to take p.o.the patient's mental status improved within 24 hours of startingthe lactulose , and she was continued on this regimen and will bedischarged on it. of note , the patient had no asterixis ondischarge.4. renal: the patient has a history of chronic kidney diseasewith a baseline creatinine of 1.3 to 1.7. the patient wasadmitted with a creatinine of 1.6 , which did increase slightlywith increased diuresis. the patient's lasix was held for a dayor two and then she was restarted on her oral home lasix regimen ,which was titrated to 60 mg p.o. b.i.d. of note , the patient'slisinopril was held on admission due to hyperkalemia. thelisinopril was not restarted prior to discharge given thepatient's history of hyperkalemia and several episodes duringthis admission , which required the administration of kayexalate.the patient likely should be on an ace inhibitor for chronickidney disease , but this can be re-added as an outpatient withvery close monitoring of her potassium as this was felt to beindicated by the patient's primary care physician. of note , thepatient was normotensive off lisinopril during this admission.5. pulmonary: the patient has history of ipf and had no acutepulmonary issues during this admission. the patient wassaturating well on her home dose of o2 throughout the entireadmission. the patient was continued on her home dose ofdexamethasone for ipf.6. infectious disease: prior to discharge , the patient wasincidentally noted to have a urine culture that was growinggreater than 100 , 000 colonies. the patient was afebrile and hadno symptoms of dysuria but did have a mildly elevated white countof 11 , 000. based on the patient's recent uti , she was started oncefpodoxime for a short 5-day course. results of this urineculture will need to be followed up and her antibiotics adjustedas necessary. the patient was continued on her bactrim for bothspep and pcp prophylaxis.code status: the patient was full code throughout this entire admission.physical exam at the time of discharge: the patient home wasafebrile and normotensive with the heart rate in the 60s to 70sand was saturating in the high 90s on her baseline 3 l of o2 vianasal cannula. her weight at the time of discharge was 198pounds. her cardiac exam was normal. her lungs had finecrackles at both bases. her abdomen was obese with no fluidwave. her extremities had bilateral pitting edema to the kneesand she had no asterixis.discharge medications:1. cefpodoxime 200 mg p.o. daily times 5 days , this medicationshould be discontinued after the last dose on 10/13/07 . 2. fosamax 35 mg p.o. weekly.3. artificial tears 2 drops to both eyes 3 times a day as neededfor dryness or irritation.4. caltrate 600 plus d 1 tablet p.o. daily.5. clotrimazole troche topically to the mouth twice daily.6. dexamethasone 1 mg p.o. t.i.d.7. colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d.8. lovenox 30 mg subcutaneously daily , this medication can bediscontinued once the patient is ambulating on a regular basis.9. lasix 60 mg p.o. b.i.d.10. aspartate insulin 20 units subcutaneously q.a.c.11. insulin aspartate sliding scale q.a.c.12. lantus 90 units subcutaneously q.a.m.13. combivent 2 puffs inhaled q.i.d.14. lactulose 30 ml p.o. q.i.d. , which can be held if thepatient is having greater than 3 bowel movements daily.15. miconazole powder applied topically to affected area twicedaily.16. nadolol 10 mg p.o. q.24h.17. prilosec 20 mg p.o. daily.18. bactrim 1 tablet p.o. q.24h.follow-up:1. the patient was discharged on 60 mg of lasix twice daily.the patient's weight at the time of discharge was 198 kg. thepatient should be weighed daily , and her primary care physicianshould be contacted for any weight gain greater than 5 pounds.the patient should have a chem-7 checked within the next 2 to 3days to follow her creatinine as well as her potassium.2. the patient had a urine culture sent prior to discharge thatrevealed 100 , 000 colonies of bacteria that were not yetidentified at the time of discharge. the patient was thenstarted empirically on cefpodoxime based on past microbiologicdata. the results of this urine culture should be followed up ina day or two and her antibiotics can be adjusted as necessary.follow-up appointment:1. the patient has appointment with her gastroenterologist , dr.darbonne , on 4/3/07 at 2:20 p.m. in the afternoon.2. the patient has follow-up appointment with her primary carephysician , dr. frush , on 9/4/07 at 10:15.disposition: the patient was discharged to rehabilitation instable condition.escription document: 3-6640624 sssten telcc: elmer capobianco mdsonry orttar general hospitalacc: orlando gino figart m.d.cc: wayne safranek , mdniry tiagrea general healthcarespodictated by: gilbert , geoffreyattending: mezo , neil phildictation id 3692900d: 7/12/07t: 7/12/07[report_end]