record #543125802822917 | fhhmh | 84824270 | | 714138 | 11/2/1991 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 2/16/1991 report status: signeddischarge date: 0/3/1991principal diagnosis: peripheral vascular disease.history of present illness: the patient is a 41-year-old malewho presented to the emergency roomcomplaining of blue right toes. the patient has no known vasculardisease. over the past two years , the patient has developedprogressive claudication. he currently is able to walk about oneblock before having to stop. he was otherwise well until about oneand a half weeks prior to admission when , for two days aftercutting his toenails , he noted increasing pain and blue coloring ofhis right fifth toe. he thought that he injured the toe whencutting the nail. he cut the skin on the plantar side of the rightthird toe accidently five days prior to admission. he thenpresented with blue coloration of the third , fourth and fifth toesand intense pain over the fifth toe. he has no history of erythemaextending up his foot or leg. he has no history of diabetes. nofever or chills. no history of atrial arrhythmias. no heartdisease , syncopal episodes. no low back or buttock pain. noerectile dysfunction. he has no history of an abdominal aorticaneurysm. he is a smoker with two packs for 20 years. no historyof hypertension or hypercholesterolemia. he had no history of tia ,cva , myocardial infarction or angina. past medical history:varicose veins. medications: none. allergies: no known drugallergies.physical examination: on admission revealed the patient to beafebrile and stable. head exam was normal.neck exam was supple with full range of motion. lungs were clearbilaterally. heart revealed a regular rate and rhythm , normal s1and s2 , no cva tenderness. abdomen was obese , soft , no palpablemasses , normal bowel sounds. groin showed no hernias. pulses weresignificant for 1+ dopplerable femorals bilaterally , 2+dopplerable dorsalis pedis bilaterally , 1+ dopplerable posteriortibial on the right , 2+ dopplerable posterior tibial on the leftand 2+ dopplerable popliteals. rectal exam was guaiac positivewith some pain and no visible lesions. abi was .66 of the dorsalispedis on the right , .44 of the dorsalis pedis on the left; .61posterior tibial on the right and .66 posterior tibial on the left.hospital course: the patient was admitted for intravenousheparinization. he underwent an angiogram whichshowed 90% stenosis of the iliac bifurcation on the right , greaterthan 50% narrowing of the distal common iliac and diffuse narrowingthroughout the vessel. his sfa and popliteals were patent on theright. on the left he had occlusion of the left common iliac withreconstruction of the common femoral. his sfa was occludedproximally with reconstitution at the adductor canal and one vesselperoneal run off. his post angio creatinine was 1.1. cardiologywas consulted and their impression was that he had severe bilateralperipheral vascular disease with a question of an embolic event tothe right toe. they recommended that if surgery became necessarythat he had perioperative nitropaste and check postoperative ekg'sand enzymes. he was sent home for follow-up in the clinic.disposition: medications: on discharge included vasotec , 5 mgpo q day; aspirin , one tablet per day; nicorette gumfor smoking cessation.th778/5415edwardo vicory , m.d. ca56 d: 4/3/91batch: 0276 report: f6831c28 t: 3/10/91dictated by: dino fears , m.d.[report_end]