262062667 | cbmc | 85642623 | | 163808 | 11/23/2000 12:00:00 am | abdominal pain | signed | dis | admission date: 8/6/2000 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/9/2000service: coll lum allprincipal diagnosis: pyelonephritis.secondary diagnoses: urinary tract infection. bilateral adnexalmasses. diabetes mellitus.history of present illness: cristopher ottilige is a 53 year old womanwith a history of diabetes mellituswho presents with abdominal pain and fevers over two weeksduration. two weeks prior to admission , the patient had headaches ,nausea , vomiting , presyncope , anorexia with mild periumbilicalpain. she also had fevers to 101 degrees f. with associated chillsand diaphoresis. the patient presented to her primary carephysician three days before admission and was found to haveelevated liver function tests with ast of 39 , alt of 108. at thattime , the patient was presumed to have a viral syndrome. two daysprior to admission , the patient developed worsening abdominal pain.the pain was described as sharp , constant in character withradiation to the back. the pain was more intense in the rightlower quadrant. the pain was also noted to be in the lower flanksand the costovertebral angle area. the patient has noted no changein her usual bowel habits of one stool per week. she has had nodiarrhea , constipation , melena , or hematochezia. she has had nohematemesis. she denies any urinary symptoms but only hasnocturia. of note , the patient had menopause approximately eightyears ago , but in each of the last three months she has noticedmonthly vaginal bleeding which she believes are a resumption ofmenstrual cycles. the last episode was about one month ago. thepatient also has a history of nephrolithiasis but feels that thiscurrent pain is different from the one she has had in the past.past medical history: significant for hypertension , diabetesmellitus diagnosed two years ago , obesity ,obstructive sleep apnea , nephrolithiasis , osteoarthritis , glaucoma.past surgical history: notable for cesarean section 20 years agothat was complicated by pulmonary embolism.medications on admission: 1. lasix 60 mg q day. 2. glyburide 5 mgq day. 3. labetalol 200 mg b.i.d.4. timoptic , xylatan drops for glaucoma.allergies: lidocaine leads to rash. lisinopril leads to cough.diltiazem leads to edema. nifedipine leads to edema.intravenous contrast leads to hives.family history: significant for cardiovascular disease.social history: the patient is married and has two children. shedenies any use of alcohol or tobacco.physical examination: temperature 102 , heart rate 90 , respiratoryrate 34 , blood pressure 143/48. oxygensaturation 91% on 2 liters nasal cannula. heent: pupils equal ,round , reactive to light and accommodation. extraocular musclesintact. anicteric sclerae. oropharynx clear. no jugular venousdistension. chest: clear to auscultation bilaterally. heart:regular rate and rhythm. normal s1 , s2 , no murmurs. abdomen:obese and fairly firm. diffusely tender to palpation. increasedright lower quadrant pain. rebound tenderness and mild guarding.bowel sounds are present but decreased. back: no costovertebralangle tenderness. cervix: cervical motion tenderness is present.neurologic: the patient is alert and oriented x3.laboratory: chemistries revealed sodium 132 , potassium 4.2 ,chloride 94 , co2 32 , bun 13 , creatinine 1. glucose315 , calcium 9.9. liver function tests showed alt 58 , ast 23 , alk127 , total bilirubin 1.2 , albumin 4.6 , globulin 3.1 , amylase 28 ,lipase 145 , total protein 7.7. the complete blood cell countrevealed a white blood cell count of 23.91 , hemoglobin 14.1 ,hematocrit 41.8 , platelets 520. the differential showed 77 polys ,7 bands , 6 lymphocytes , and 6 monocytes. the urinalysis wasnotable for ph 5.5 , protein 1+ , glucose 1+ , leukocytes 1+ , nitritepositive , trace ketones , and no blood. sediments showed whiteblood cells 45 - 50 , 4+ bacteria , 1+ squamous epithelial cells , 1 -2 casts. abdominal ct was notable for a 7 x 8 cm low density fluidcollection in the region of the right adnexa and a 4 x 8 cm lowdensity fluid collection in the left adnexa. a ucg was negative.procedures: september , 2000 , endometrial biopsy. the procedurewas limited due to the patient's body habitus. thebiopsy revealed no evidence of malignancy. complications none.hospital course: by systems:1. genitourinary. the patient's presentingsymptoms and abdominal ct findings of bilateral adnexal masses weresuspicious for a tubo-ovarian abscess. however , the patient didnot have any of the associated risk factors , given that the patientis not sexually active and denied introducing any foreign objectsinto the vagina. the patient was initially managed on tripleantibiotics , ampicillin , gentamicin , and clindamycin. since a ctscan is not the optimal test to evaluate the adnexa , a transvaginalultrasound was ordered which revealed endometrial thickness of 3.6mm and bilateral cystic masses. the patient's right upper quadrantpain and tenderness persisted for several days during the admissionwith periodic exacerbations and was increasingly suspicious forcholelithiasis or pancreatitis. the patient then had an abdominalultrasound which was essentially was within normal limits andshowed no abnormal viscera. the bilateral adnexal masses continuedto be of major concern , and interventional radiology was consultedfor possible aspiration. given that the etiology of the masses wasunclear and the risk of malignancy in a post menopausal woman , itwas decided that the best approach would be open tissue sampling.it was then decided to postpone this procedure pending furtherevaluation of the patient. of note , the patient had a ca-125 drawnwhich 77. serum hcg was negative. the patient's report of newonset of post menopausal bleeding was concerning. considering thehigh likelihood of malignancy , the patient was being followed bythe gynecology oncology service and underwent endometrial biopsyfor tissue sampling. the biopsy revealed no evidence ofmalignancy. the patient had a repeat ct scan on hospital daynumber seven which was essentially unchanged from admission showingpersistent bilateral adnexal masses and no free fluid. thepatient's symptoms of right lower quadrant pain persisted butbecame more responsive to treatment toward the end of theadmission. throughout the admission the actual etiology of thebilateral adnexal masses was never discerned. as a result , thepatient was referred to the gynecology oncology service forcontinued follow up as an outpatient.2. infectious disease. the patient's presentation of fevers ,chills , and diaphoresis was certainly suspicious for infectiousprocess. initially the patient was covered with ampicillin ,gentamicin , and clindamycin for empiric antimicrobial coverage.the urine culture was notable for greater than 100 , 000 escherichiacoli which was pan sensitive. all blood cultures at initialpresentation had been negative. on october , the creatininelevel increased to 1.8. as a result , gentamicin was then switchedto levofloxacin. the patient's fever initially defervesced from102.2 to 99.3 , but spiked to 100.1 after six days of antibiotics.her white blood cell count remained elevated and ranged from 24 to32. however , by discharge the white blood cell count was 10.because of the patient's initial minimal response to antibiotics ,repeat blood cultures and urine cultures were sent which werenegative. in addition , id was consulted to provide furtherguidance regarding antimicrobial management. they recommended tocontinue ampicillin and levofloxacin. clindamycin was changed toflagyl. by discharge , the patient was afebrile.3. cardiovascular. by hospital day number two , the patient wasnoted to have increased lower extremity swelling and new bibasilarcrackles. the symptoms were suggestive of volume overload andpossibly congestive heart failure. a chest x-ray was notable forbilateral atelectasis in the lower lobes but no pulmonary edema orpleural effusions. a cardiac echocardiogram revealed normalsystolic function with ejection fraction of approximately 60% andmild left ventricular hypertrophy. the patient was treated withlasix and was aggressively diuresed. she responded well totreatment.4. neurologic. the patient presented with abdominal pain and wasinitially with demerol and vistaril. initially the patient wasonly minimally responsive to treatment , but over time she becamemore responsive. by discharge , the patient was without pain.medications on discharge: lasix 60 mg p.o. q.i.d. glyburide 5 mgp.o. q day. labetalol 200 mg p.o.b.i.d. flagyl 500 mg p.o. q 8 hours. levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q24 hours. xalatan 1 drop ou q p.m. timoptic 0.5% 1 drop os q day.condition on discharge: stable.disposition: the patient was discharged to home and required noservices.discharge instructions: the patient was advised to call herprimary care physician for fevers greaterthan 100.5 , chills , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain. the patientwas also advised to take her temperature every day. the patientwas scheduled to follow up with her primary care physician in oneweek. she will also follow up with the gynecology oncology servicefor further evaluation of bilateral adnexal masses and postmenopausal bleeding.dictated by: paco , kevin renaldo deandreattending: arlie s. pagani , m.d. gi4tt378/8050batch: 12878 index no. hgtddi2qm2 d: 5/11t: 5/11