961853724 | poh | 39305033 | | 628915 | 11/27/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 6/25/1994 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/22/1994discharge diagnosis: atrial fibrillation.secondary diagnoses include: 1. asthma.2. morbid obesity.3. alcohol abuse.history of present illness: ms. zukowsky is a 50 year old woman with along history of asthma who presentedwith shortness of breath and palpitations. her asthma ischaracterized by multiple short admissions for flares , last inoctober 1993 , and multiple courses of steroid tapers. at home , sheuses ventolin and theophylline. her other medical problems includemorbid obesity and a history of alcohol abuse. she has hadpalpitations in the past and a holter in 4/19 showed only threeepisodes of supraventricular tachycardia. she has also had astress test in february 1992 which was a nine minute arm cyclestress test with maximal heart rate of 128 and systolic bloodpressure of 120. the test was negative for ischemic changes. shehas never had an ekg showing atrial fibrillation. she came intothe emergency ward on 8/22/94 complaining of two weeks ofintermittent palpitations as well as shortness of breath. she usedincreased doses of her ventolin inhaler for this and continued onher theophylline. she felt her heart fluttering quite a bit andintermittently , these palpitations would go away. she never tookher heart rate during these episodes nor could she characterize herheart as being irregular. prior to the palpitations beginning , shehad gone on a drinking binge and had drank a half a pint of brandy.she has had a cough productive of whitish sputum but no change inthe sputum character chronically. her asthma has been slightlyincreasing with increased wheezing and she has been using herinhaler more. in the emergency ward , her ekg showed atrialfibrillation with a heart rate in the 130 range. she wascontrolled with intravenous diltiazem and admitted for new onsetatrial fibrillation. past medical history: as above and alsoincluding degenerative joint disease of the knees and ankles.current medications: slo-phyllin and ventolin inhaler. allergies:she had no known drug allergies. social history: she lives withher two children , has used alcohol in binges , and does not smoke.family history: she has a family history of coronary arterydisease with a mother who died of a myocardial infarction in herfifties.physical examination: she was a morbidly obese black female in noacute distress. her temperature was 98.2 ,heart rate 108 , blood pressure 110/68 , and o2 saturations 96% ontwo liters. head/neck: examinations were negative , her jugularvenous pressure was not visible secondary to obesity , and hercarotids were 1+ bilaterally. lungs: showed scant wheezing at theleft base otherwise were clear. cardiac: examination wasirregularly irregular , she had distant s1 and s2 , and no murmurs.abdomen: obese , soft , non-tender , and no organomegaly.extremities: without definite edema. rectal: examination was obnegative with decreased tone. neurological: examination wasessentially non-focal.laboratory examination: notable on admission were a theophyllinelevel of 23.6 which was elevated , an sma 7which was within normal limits with the exception of a potassium of3.8 , bun and creatinine of 5 and 0.9 , and cbc showed a white countof 6.1 , hematocrit 40.8 , and platelets of 288. an ekg showedatrial fibrillation at 136 with low voltage and poor r waveprogression. chest x-ray showed no infiltrates or effusions.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the medical service.her rate was controlled with intravenousdiltiazem drip which was changed over to 90 mg p.o. q.d. inaddition , she was started on digoxin and her rate was controlled tothe seventies and eighties. she was also heparinized andcoumadinized and an ace consultation was obtained given her historyof alcohol abuse. she was not interested in further out-patientcare for this matter but has the number and will call if shedesires it. also , a nutrition consultation was obtained given herobesity and she will follow-up with them as an out-patient.disposition: she is followed in whitela tanral hospital clinic by dr. douglass planeand he will see her as an out-patient in one week atwhich time he will schedule her an admission for electivecardioversion after she has been anti-coagulated for at least threeweeks. discharge medications: coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.d. , diltiazemsr 180 mg p.o. b.i.d. , beclovent inhaler two puffs inhaled q.i.d. ,atrovent inhaler two puffs inhaled q.i.d. , and nitroglycerinsublingually p.r.n.dictated by: merlin t. deprizio , m.d. jz62attending: laurence w. meardon , m.d. jl9  yd042/2443batch: 7622 index no. gahq3h9y4r d: 11/11/94t: 3/2/94