326437440 | ugh | 11135516 | | 2200008 | 8/3/2005 12:00:00 am | rule out mycocardial infarction | signed | dis | admission date: 6/12/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/27/2005attending: weissmann , rory m.d.date of surgery:3/1/05 .history and physical:this is a 74-year-old gentleman with a history oninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , hypertension , coronaryartery disease , with substernal chest pain on exertion , which hadbeen increasing for the month prior to surgery. he denies anyshortness of breath , pnd or orthopnea. he has a history ofthree-vessel disease on catheterization back in 1996 , status postangioplasty without stenting. he reportedly had an abnormalexercise tolerance test in 1996 and in 1999. he was admitted viahis primary care physician's office on 7/16/05 with substernalchest pain and t wave inversions in leads v3 and v4. enzymeswere cycled and they were negative x4. the patient went to thecath on 2/7/05 and was found to have coronary artery disease.he was scheduled for cabg.past medical history:1. hypertension.2. diabetes mellitus , on insulin therapy.3. hypercholesterolemia.past surgical history:unknown.medications on admission:1. lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d.2. lisinopril 40 mg p.o. daily.3. aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily.4. hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene one tablet daily.5. atorvastatin 80 mg p.o. daily.6. lantus 50 cc daily.allergies:the patient has no known drug allergies.social history:no known social history.family history:no family history of coronary artery disease.physical examination:the patient stands 5 feet 6 inches tall , weighs 97.9 kg.temperature was 97 , heart rate was 62 , and blood pressure was110/64. he was on a face mask with an oxygen saturation at 95%.on physical examination , he was alert and oriented , with no focaldeficits. heent showed perrla. no teeth , both upper and lowerdentures. no carotid bruits. cardiovascular: regular rate andrhythm , with no murmurs , rubs or gallops. his allen's test onthe left upper extremity was normal , on the right upper extremitywas normal. respiratory: he had clear breath soundsbilaterally. adomen: soft , nontender , no masses , noted to beobese. extremities: without scarring , varicosities or edema.pulses , carotid left and right were 2+ , radial left and rightwere 2+ , femoral left and right were 2+ , dorsalis pedis were leftand right present by doppler , and posterior tibial were left andright present by doppler.admission laboratory values:sodium of 137 , k of 4.2 , bun of 35 , and creatinine of 1.3. whiteblood cell count was 7 , hematocrit was 38 , and platelet count was179 , 000. inr was 1.1. his ua was described as contaminated.cardiac cath from 2/7/05 , which was performed at the adli corn11 health center ,showed a 95% ostial lad lesion , a 60% mid lad lesion , an 80%distal lad lesion , a 70% proximal d1 lesion , a 40% proximalcircumflex lesion , a 90% ostial om1 lesion , a 100% proximal rcalesion , and a right dominant circulation. echo from 9/10/05showed a 60% ejection fraction , with trace to mild mitralregurgitation , no wall motion abnormalities. an ekg on 2/7/05showed a normal sinus rhythm with a rate of 52 , inverted t wavesin v3 , v4 , v5 and v6. a chest x-ray from 11/22/05 was read outas normal.hospital course:the patient was taken to surgery on 3/1/05 . the preoperative diagnosis wasunstable angina , three-vessel disease and morbid obesity. the procedure was acabg x3. the patient had an anaphylactoid response to aprotinin andsubsequently had an all vein cabg. there was a y graft , svg1 connecting svg2to the lad , svg2 connecting the aorta to om1 , and svg3 connecting to pda. thepatient was brought up from the operating room to the cardiac surgeryintensive care unit in stable condition. he was extubated on postoperativeday #1. he did well over the next several days. he had some intermittentconfusion , but neuro exam was essentially nonfocal , and the patient wastransferred to the step-down unit on postoperative day #4. at that time ,neurologically , he was intact. of note , he had a ventricular fibrillationarrest in the operating room because of the aprotinin reaction in theoperating room with systolic pressures in the 40s. open cardiac massage wasrequired , and he was defibrillated. they used lidocaine and amiodarone duringthe code. his ck-mb rose to 37.5 , and his ck was 1646. after his procedure ,the patient did wake up and was neurologically intact. the patient was on aregular diet. he had had problems with abdominal distention , but this hadresolved. the patient had also been noted to have an increased creatinine.however , this also resolved. the patient was a known diabetic and was onnovolog sliding scale , and also receiving lantus. the patient has noinfectious disease issues at that time. the patient was in the step-down unit ,and on postoperative day #5 , he was noted to spike. cultures were sent offwhich grew out 3+ gram-native rods. he was started on flagyl for presumedaspiration pneumonia. he also is noted to have a positive uti and was startedon levofloxacin at that time. he also was noted to have a rise in hiscreatinine and this was followed as well. on postoperative day #8 , thepatient was again spiked up to 101. pancultures were sent out as well. he wasfound to have a beta-lactamase-resistant e. coli in his urine. this promptedan id consult , and the patient was started on nitrofurantoin. also , at thistime , around postoperative day #9 , it was noted that the patient began to havesome serous drainage from his sternal wound. he was followed by infectiousdisease at that time , and over the course of the next several days , it wasdiscovered that the wound grew out gram-negative rods. a plastic surgeryconsult was obtained for the patient after a ct scan showed some nonunion ofthe sternal table and collection of fluid underneath the sternum. onpostoperative day #11 , it was decided that the patient would benefit fromincision and drainage plus pectoral flap or omental flap for sternal woundinfection , so the patient was taken back to the operating room on 1/25/05 forincision and drainage of a deep sternal wound infection. at the time ofsurgery , a purulent liquid material was expressed through the skin. theincision was made. the sternum was noted to be totally separated with most ofthe wires having been pulled through. the wound was irrigated , and an omentalflap with pectoral advancement was performed. the patient returned from theoperating room to the surgery intensive care unit where he was again confused ,however , was able to be easily returned to baseline. following theserecommendations , the nitrofurantoin was discontinued and the patient wasstarted on imipenem. also , the patient was noted to be growing enterobacterin his urine and he was started no ceftazidime. the patient did well in theicu. he improved from a neuro status. his chest wound healed withoutdifficulty. he had one brief episode of atrial fibrillation during a coughingspell , but this also resolved , and the patient was continued on hisantihypertensive medication. the patient was deemed fit for transfer on apostoperative day #18 back from the icu once again to the step-down unit.summary by system:1. neurologically , the patient is spanish-speaking only. he isintact , moving all extremities , getting in and out of bed , andvery independent.2. cardiovascular: the patient's heart rate is in 70 to 80 ,sinus. blood pressure is 100s to 150s , means are 70s to 100s.he is on lopressor 25 mg q.6h. and on amlodipine 5 mg b.i.d.3. respiratory: the patient is on room air , saturating 98%.4. gi: the patient is advanced diet as tolerated , having bowelmovements , on a diabetic diet.5. renal: the patient's foley is out , running negative 340 forthe day before , on lasix 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. recommendations wouldbe to have an extra dose or so of lasix since chest x-ray thismorning was noted to be slightly wet.6. endocrine: he is a diabetic. he is on lantus , novolog ,insulin , and diabetes management is following.7. heme: the patient is on aspirin and atorvastatin. he stillhas chest drains , which are being followed by plastics who wantsto keep them in.8. id: he has got a deep sternal infection with e. coli and is status post apectus as well as a omental flap closure. imipenem was started on 11/19/05 perid's recommendation , needs to continue for six weeks. uti growing outklebsiella and enterobacter. imipenem was stared on 11/19/05 , again , this willneed to be continued for six weeks. the patient is also on vancomycin for hissternal wound infection. this was started on 1/25/05 and needs to continuefor six weeks. currently , the patient is afebrile. white blood cell count is10. the chest wound was noted to have a small area of erythema , however , it isintact , and he is being followed by plastics.the rest of the dictation will follow when the patient isdischarged.escription document: 8-3158603 emsdictated by: westermeier , simonattending: berlinghof , winfreddictation id 1642437d: 5/10/05t: 5/10/05