record date: 2086-08-02this is my first visit with ms. ordonez, for whom this is a routine physical.68 yo pleasant white woman with the following problems:1.  left vertebral stenosisms. ordonez presented with ataxia and dizziness in 2083 and was found to have an infarct in the territory of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery.  work-up revealed left vertebral stenosis.  she recovered after the event to her baseline, and now has no complaints of ha, dizziness, ataxia, paresthesias, or motor weakness.  she is chronically anticoagulated and followed in coumadin clinic; recent inr was 2.6.2.  hypertensionduring her 2083 admission for cva, ms. ordonez was found to be severely hypertensive.  she is now on atenolol 75 mg po qd and zestril 10 mg po qd for control of her hypertension.  she does not measure her blood pressure at home.  3.  diabetes mellitusms. ordonez has niddm for which she takes micronase 5 mg bid with fairly good control.  she has no known history of retinopathy, nephropathy, cad, or neuropathy.  she has no complaints of visual changes, chest pain/sob, paresthesias, or bloating/early satiety.  she has noticed some increase in thirst (7 glasses of water/day) which she attributes to the heat and she has nocturia (2x per night) which has been stable over a couple of years.  4.  dyslipidemia  ms. ordonez has a history of elevated total cholesterol; i don't think she has had a fasting lipid panel.5.  benign breast diseasems. ordonez has diffusely fibronodular breasts.  microcalcifications were noted on mammography and bilateral excisional biopsies revealed benign fibroadenoma without evidence of malignancy.  mammography on 7/28/86 was normal.  6.  skin lesionms. ordonez has a skin lesion on her right temple which has developed over the course of a couple of months.  it is slightly sore to touch, and is non-pruritic and does not bleed.ros:  no ha, dizziness, ataxia, hearing loss, vision changes, chest pain/pressure, sob, leg swelling, pnd/orthopnea, diarrhea, nausea/vomiting, dysuria, incontinence, paresthesias, arthralgias, rash, fevers, cold or heat intolerance.  does complain of mild chronic dry cough.health maintenance:  no asa (on coumadin)no recent pneumovax/influenzano tetanus vaccine within 10 yrsdoes not do regular breast exams, mammography 7/28/86no recent stool guaiac, has never had endoscopyhas never had pap smearpmh:pica infarct in '83 left vertebral stenosisniddmhtndyslipidemiar cataract removals/p breast biopsy: benign fibroadenomafamily hx:mother died of mi age 45father died of mi age 72no family hx colon casocial history:50 pack year hx, quit 2081rare etohlives with son, several children in arearetiredall:  nkdamedications:micronase (glyburide)  5mg po bid   atenolol  75 mg po qd   8/02/86coumadin (warfarin sodium)   po    zestril (lisinopril)  10mg po qd   pe:obese woman in no apparent distressvs:  bp 170/90   hr 74   t 97.8   weight 191 lbsheent:  no scleral icterus; fundi without hemorrhage, exudate, copper wiring or av nicking; ear canals occluded with cerumen; op no lesions; no thyromegaly; no lad; no carotid bruitscv:  pmi not palpable, regular rate and rhythm, s2 with physiological splitting, no murmer/rubs/gallopschest:  lungs resonant to percussion, clear to auscultation, without wheezes or cracklesbreasts diffusely nodular, no asymmetry/dimpling/discharge, bilateral scars from excisional biopsiesabd:  soft, nontender, nondistended, positive bowel sounds, no hepatomegaly or spleen tip palpable, no abdominal bruitsext:  trace le edema to ankles, no cyanosis or clubbingskin:  keratotic 1 cm lesion on r templeneuro:  perrl, cn ii-viii and xii tested and intact, motor strength 5/5 throughout, light touch sensation intact in distal extremities, finger-nose and heel/shin testing intactrectal/gu:  deferredtests:ua negative (including protein)fasting lipid panel, cbc, chem 7, hba1c pendingimpression by problem:1.  left vertebral stenosis:  patient has not had recurrent symptoms since her cva in 2083 and she is neurologically intact by my neuro exam.  she is therapeutic on her coumadin.  she will continue coumadin and i will attempt to address cva risk factors such as htn and dyslipidemia (will avoid lowering bp excessively to preserve vertebral perfusion).2.  hypertension:  patient is quite hypertensive (170/90) on current regimen of atenolol 75 mg qd and zestril 10 mg qd.  her heart rate is 74; i will increase her atenolol to 100 mg qd.  she does not complain of any side effects from her medications.  she does have a chronic, mild dry cough which is possibly related to her zestril.  3.  diabetes mellitusms. ordonez takes micronase 5 mg bid for blood sugar control; she does not measure her glucose at home.  she has had a little polydipsia/polyuria.  today i will check a glucose and hba1c level.  her ua today is negative and i will check a spot urine microalbumin/cr ratio.  on her next visit i will schedule an ophthalmology appointment.  she is on an ace inhibitor.4.  dyslipidemiathe patient has had a recent cholesterol of 206.  i will obtain a fasting lipid panel.5.  benign breast diseaseexcisional biopsy showed benign fibroadenoma, mammography on 7/28/86 was normal.  she has diffuse fibronodular disease on exam today.  i have instructed her in self-examination.6.  skin lesionms. ordonez' skin lesion looks like it may be a suborrheic keratosis or squamous cell.  i will refer to a dermatologist.7.  health maintenancei discussed both hormone replacement therapy and screening flexible sigmoidoscopy with ms. ordonez and she has declined both.  she also does not want a pneumovax today, although she is willing to have her tetanus.  she has also agreed to start taking calcium/vitamin d as well as an mvi.  she has had recent mammography.follow-up:  i will see ms. ordonez in one month to check her blood pressure on her increased dose of atenolol.