763970014cmc8590556704/21/1994 12:00:00 amdischarge summarysigneddisadmission date :04/21/1994report status :signeddischarge date :04/29/1994discharge diagnosis :left parietal glioblastoma multiforme .history of present illness :patient is an 88 year old female with fatigue and decreased short term memory for the past six months .the past six weeks , she has also been complaining of hot sensation and tingling sensation in the hands bilaterally .for the past five weeks , the patient has experienced dragging of the right leg with weakness throughout that side .head ct was done which patient reported demonstrated three lesions in the left parietal region of the brain .bone scan , ct of the abdomen , chest x-ray , and mammogram were all negative .patient noted the foot dragging to have worsened over the past few weeks but improved since on decadron the past week before admission .patient is now admitted for elective left parietal stereotactic biopsy of the tumor .past medical / surgical history :significant for a history of hypertension , basal cell carcinoma of the nose six years ago , cataracts , and a hysterectomy .allergies :no known drug allergies .current medications :hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg q.d. and decadron 25 mg b.i.d.physical examination :on admission demonstrated a well-developed , well-nourished female in no apparent distress dragging her right foot .heent :head was atraumatic and normocephalic with pupils equal , round , and reactive to light .lungs :clear to auscultation .heart :examination demonstrated a regular rate and rhythm without any murmurs noted .abdomen :benign with a hysterectomy scar which was well healed .neurological :examination showed that the patient was noted to be alert and oriented times three , short term memory was deficient , patient remembered zero out of three things to remember at one minute , speech was noted to be fluent , and cranial nerves ii-xii were intact .on motor examination , patient was noted to be of normal motor function throughout except for a slight weakness of the right dorsi flexion and plantar flexion , both noted to be about 4/5 and sensory examination was intact throughout .patient 's gait was noted to have a right foot drag as well as right foot drop .hospital course :patient was taken to the operating room on april 21 where patient underwent a left parietal stereotactic guided brain biopsy .patient tolerated the procedure well without any complications and was taken to the recovery room awake and stable then subsequently transferred to the floor .patient did well post-operatively , continued to have a right sided deficit , and physical therapy and occupational therapy visited the patient , worked with the patient , and determined that patient needed rehabilitation with physical therapy .the patient was evaluated by doing and was subsequently accepted into that program .patient is now discharged to harl wa healthcare network on april 29 , 1994 in stable condition .disposition :she is to receive rehabilitation to increase her mobility and strength , rehabilitation potential is good , and she is to receive the following medications at that facility :decadron 3 mg p.o. q.6h. times one week then 2 mg p.o.q.6h. thereafter , colace 100 mg b.i.d. , heparin 5000 units subcutaneously b.i.d. until ambulating well , hydrochlorothiazide 25mg q.d. , dilantin 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , zantac 150 mg b.i.d. , and percocet p.r.n.patient is to be subsequently followed up by dr. memory .pathology of the biopsy demonstrated glioblastoma multiforme , grade iii/iii .radiation oncology saw the patient while in the hospital and is to follow her over at colning .dictated by :telshey memory , m.d.attending :besti t. drop , m.d. nd32 uz561/2906batch :349index no. wzge1 xnhqd :04/29/94t :04/29/94