303852799 | bh | 82632938 | | 0723457 | 8/14/2004 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 8/14/2004 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: harrison botras mddischarge date: 2/18/04 , anticipated.principal diagnosis: coronary artery disease.secondary diagnosis: aortic stenosis , copd , cough , diabetes ,history of dvt , hypertension , gerd.history of present illness: this is a 78-year-old man with ahistory of coronary artery disease , copd , end-stage renal diseaseon hemodialysis , and ischemic cardiomyopathy presenting as atransfer from nivi niot rehabilitation center for management of ischemiccardiomyopathy and aortic stenosis. briefly , he was admitted totawde memorial hospital on 7/16/04 , with varied symptoms includinga nonproductive cough , bronchospasm , and shortness of breath. healso was hypoglycemic with a glucose of 34 , likely due toanorexia and continued used of regular amounts of insulin. hewas found to have positive cardiac enzymes as well with atroponin peaking at approximately 4.3 , and was seen bycardiology , renal services in consultation. concurrently , he wastreated with a course of azithromycin and ceftriaxone forpresumed bronchitis. the initial plan recommended by cardiologyincluded an echocardiogram , which was read at that time ,indicated decreased ejection fraction of only about 15% to 20%.this represented a change from prior. the next step intended wasfor a cardiac catheterization , but there was concern regardinghis aortic stenosis which despite a gradient of only 14% onechocardiogram , was concerning , as this might represent anunderestimation. he was transferred to mid-li ners lini medical center for further evaluation of both the need for aortic valvereplacement and this new reduced ejection fraction , felt tolikely be ischemic cardiomyopathy , with a demand relatednon-st-elevation mi.of note , he also had a pulmonary artery pressure of 68 on hisprior echo. he has had a cardiac cath in 2000 showingwell-preserved ventricular function , overall ef 60% , with lad 30%to 40% , 60% diagonal , 100% rca , 60% omb , and diffuse circumflexdisease.shortly before transfer , he was hemodialyzed as regularlyscheduled. he had been placed on a prednisone taper forquestionable copd exacerbation.at this time , he denies any chest pain or chest heaviness now orprior to admission. he has no back or jaw pain. he does haveshortness of breath with a nonproductive cough and wheezes. nofevers , chills , nausea , vomiting. no orthopnea. increased lowerextremity edema and increased salty food intake immediately priorto ronbranch ded memorial hospital hospitalization. he was feeling well one weekprior to admission at disekend .past medical history: diabetes mellitus , insulin dependent ,end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis x 2 years ( monday ,wednesday , friday ) , coronary artery disease , known three-vesseldisease , possible history of mi 20 years ago , hypertension ,ischemic cardiomyopathy , dvt status post ivc filter placement ,possibly two filters , removed , hyperlipidemia , copd , home o2requirement of 3 liters , sats 97% , prostate cancer , status postxrt , gerd , depression.medications at home: insulin nph 14 units q.a.m. , 10 unitsq.p.m. , 10 units regular insulin q.a.m. , insulin sliding scale ,quinine 325 mg p.o. before dialysis , captopril 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. ,nitroglycerin patch , serevent , flovent , flomax 0.4 mg , lipitor 20mg q.h.s. , protonix 40 mg p.o. , albuterol and atrovent nebulizertreatments , paxil 10 mg q. day , senokot b.i.d. , phoslo twocapsules t.i.d. , coumadin 2.5 mg p.o. q. day.medications on transfer: prednisone 10 mg , serevent , quinine 325mg , captopril 25 mg t.i.d. , flovent b.i.d. , flomax 0.4 mg q. day ,lipitor 20 mg q. day , protonix 40 mg q. day , paxil 10 mg q. day ,aspirin 325 mg q. day , albuterol nebulizers , phoslo two tabletsthree times a day , nitroglycerin paste , nephrocaps , azithromycin ,last dose 10/26/04 , nph insulin 10 units b.i.d. , epogen 14k unitsq. sunday , heparin.allergies: demerol.social history: a retired boiler worker , lives in ms withhis wife. no living children. not currently smoker. rarealcohol use.family medical history: son died at age 44 of renal cancer.physical examination: notable for o2 sat of 96% on 4 liters ,coughing but no distress , blood pressure 106/56. jvp , 6 cm.diminished second sound , 3/6 mid peaking systolic ejectionmurmur , high pitched , audible at apex , left lower sternal border ,and aortic ausculatory area. abdomen: moderately obese , soft ,nontender , no bruits. femoral pulses: weak , no distal pulses , noedema. extremities: warm.ekg: sinus is 74 , lvh , left atrial enlargement , old inferior miwith q waves in iii and avf.labs: notable for a creatinine of 7.4 , inr of 1.7 , hematocrit of34.8 , white count of 11.9. chest x-ray , clear.assessment and plan: a 78-year-old man with coronary arterydisease , diabetes , end-stage renal disease , copd , aorticstenosis , here with shortness of breath , and increased troponins.the most concerning feature was interval decrease in ejectionfraction from 60% to 10% to 15% over a four-year interval.slightly ischemic concerning with old inferior mi and withelevated troponins.course by system:1. cardiovascular: he was maintained on aspirin , statin , andace ( renally dosed ). beta-blocker held secondary tobronchospasm. his echo was reevaluated and felt to be close at30% ejection fraction. he had a diagnostic cardiaccatheterization to assess his aortic stenosis on 9/10/04 . thefindings were an aortic valve area of 1.2 to 1.6 cm2 with aorticgradient of 21.1. his pulmonary artery pressure was peak of 61 ,mean of 35. his vessels showed an lad ostial 70% lesion , and ladproximal to mid 70% tubular lesion , a large marginal 80% lesionleft circumflex , a 100% occluded right coronary artery , with leftto right collaterals. it was also found to have a difficultplacing a right ij catheter , likely occluded.2. cardiac surgery was consulted and these findings werediscussed. it was felt that he was a better candidate forpercutaneous stenting rather than immediate surgery given thebalance between his only mild-to-moderate aortic stenosis and thehigh risks of surgery. accordingly , he was observed over theweekend and had a repeat catheterization on 2/12/04 withstenting of the left circumflex marginal lesion from 99% to 0%with a drug-eluting stent. he tolerated this procedure wellwithout hematoma and with maintenance of dopplerable pedalpulses.3. pulmonary: he continued to have good oxygen saturations on 4liters. after several days , he was tapered to 0 mg ofprednisone; he continued to have severe cough that graduallyimproved , nonproductive throughout. he was on antitussivemedications as needed. he completed a course of azithromycinthat had been started at teety flandter bassba of medical center .  chest x-rays wereclear x 2. he attempted pfts , but his vital capacity wasseverely limited by cough. however , his fev1 was 0.89 , 40% ofpredicted.4. hematologic: his coumadin was held given the unclear needfor acute anticoagulation ( remote dvt , already protected by ivcfilter ) and the concern that he might need an intervention. thiswas started shortly before discharge with the expectation hewould follow up as prior to admission with his inrs.5. renal: he was seen by the renal team and dialyzed to his dryweight on a monday , wednesday , friday schedule.6. endocrine: his blood sugars were somewhat labile rangingfrom the 300s to the 40s. this was complicated by the use ofprednisone. post prednisone , he was placed on home regimen of 14units q.a.m. , 8 units q.p.m. of nph , and 8 units regular q.a.m.escription document: 2-0933082 issten teldictated by: cellar , andreaattending: woolridge , abramdictation id 0177746d: 10/11/04t: 10/11/04