820960713 | bh | 08510916 | | 9312052 | 1/22/2006 12:00:00 am | chest pain | unsigned | dis | admission date: 1/22/2006 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 2/9/2007attending: barends , reginald mdchief complaint: dizziness , weakness and chest pressure.history of present illness: this is an 82-year-old female with aprior history of hypertension , diabetes , coronary disease statuspost cabg and angio interventions. she was in her usual state ofhealth until returning from the bathroom at 1 a.m. on the day ofadmission when she felt weak. she describes the sensation as ifshe was going to die. she had a burning sensation in her midsternum and upper abdominal pain and also felt lightheaded. thepatient describes the pain is worse when lying flat andassociated with mild shortness of breath and intermittent nauseawithout vomiting. she denies radiation of the pain.of note , the patient has had many recent htn episodes in thew/associated lightheadednessprompting many visits to the caea hospital emergency room. she was admitted about one to two weeks ago tothe bayi for similar complaints with hypertensiveurgency. her blood pressure medications were adjusted. she hada negative cardiac workup.review of systems: the patient denies cough , cold symptoms ,fevers , chills , weight changes , changes in vision , numbness ,diarrhea , melena or urinary symptoms. she reports her dry weightof 152 pounds. fingerstick blood sugars per the patient onreport had been in the low 100s recently and she had beencomplaint with all her medications.past medical history: hypertension , diabetes , coronary disease ,cabg x2 with redo sternotomy both in the 1970s and 1990s ,peripheral artery disease , renal artery stenosis , status postleft renal stent , paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , right carotidendarterectomy.home medications: aspirin 325 mg daily , plavix 75 mg daily ,glyburide 1.25 mg daily , lasix 20 mg daily , toprol xl 50 mgdaily , lisinopril 15 mg b.i.d. ( recently increased to this dosewhile at during her last admission to the swe rehabilitation hospital of ) and lipitor80 mg daily.allergies: penicillin which causes rash.family history: identified as noncontributory.social history: the patient is a retired nurse who had worked intecoll rehabilitation health . she lives with her son. she has four childrenwho are alive and well and living in the area. she has a remotesmoking history. she denies alcohol or illicit drug use.admission physical examination: she is afebrile. heart rate 59 ,blood pressure 136/58 , respiratory rate 18 , oxygen saturation100% on 2 liters. in general , the patient describes as elderlylying supine in bed , resting comfortably. she is awake , speakingin full sentences without difficulty. she is in no acuterespiratory distress. heent , normocephalic and atraumatic ,anicteric sclerae , mucous membranes are moist. neck is supplewithout lymphadenopathy. jvp was approximately 7-8 cm. chest ,she had bibasilar fine rales with fair aeration throughout. norhonchi or wheezes. cardiovascular , regular rate and rhythm , s1and s2 with bradycardic rate at 48 beats per minute. abdomen hasmany old healed scars , no rashes , bowel sounds are positive. sheis soft , nondistended , nontender without hepatosplenomegaly.extremities are warm and well perfused. no clubbing , cyanosis oredema. a 2+ dorsalis pedal pulses. skin is intact without rash.neuro , cranial nerves ii to xii intact with no focal deficits.she is alert and oriented x3. vascular , she has bilateralfemoral bruits which were audible with stethoscope.admission labs: sodium 140 , potassium 4.5 , chloride 108 , co2 23 ,anion gap of 9 , calcium 9 , magnesium 1.8 , total bilirubin 0.7 ,bnp 165 , cardiac enzymes were not elevated , white count 6.91 ,hematocrit 35.9 , platelets 227. urinalysis was within normallimits. pt 12.1 , ptt 43.2 , inr 1.0. a portable chest x-ray waswithout any evidence of acute pulmonary process. ekg with sinusbradycardia with rate of 55 with t-wave inversions in leads v5and v6 , leads 1 , 2 and avf. all present on prior ekg. therewere no acute st changes.emergency room course: systolic blood pressure was in 190s. shereceived aspirin x1 , lopressor 25 mg p.o. x1 , lopressor 5 mg ivx1 , and blood pressure went down to 170s prior to her transfer tothe floor.hospital course:1. cardiovascular:ischemia: the patient ruled out for myocardial infarction by serial enzymes.her ekg was abnormal , but unchanged from 1/28 she continued on aspirin ,plavix andlipitor. fasting lipids did not indicate need for change instatin treatment. on 3/1 , the patient had a recurrence ofher chest pain symptoms in the setting of her only hypertensiveevent during this admission. her ekg was notable for new flippedts in leads v3 and v4 ( which happened to be seen previouslyduring this admission when she had atrial fibrillation with rapidventricular response on 6/3 ). the medical team suspectshypertensive-induced microvascular angina. a repeat rule out mihas been re-initiated and is currently in progress at the time ofthis dictation. a&b set enzymes were negative.pump: echocardiogram at the dallnorm community hospital on 10/6revealed normal left ventricle with an ef of 60% , left atrialenlargement , 1-2+ mitral valve regurgitation , 1+ tricuspidregurgitation , and mild pulmonary hypertension ( with pulmonaryartery pressure of 43 ). the patient had fine rales on her admitexam with bnp of 160. of note , on 10/6 at warden memorial hospital thepatient had her lisinopril increased to 15 mg b.i.d. to facilitatebetter blood pressure control. ace inhibitor and lasix were heldduring this admission due to arise in her creatinine. lisinopril wasrestarted at a dose reduction of 5 mg b.i.d. and lasix was restartedon 3/1 in the setting of symptomatic chest pain which began while thepatient was receiving a second unit of blood ( see heme below of moredetails ). her bnp following the transfusion was 265. the current planis to titrate ace inhibitor to affect as long as her creatininedoes not climb.rhythm: the patient had asymptomatic sinus bradycardia with rates ranging45-58 until 5/3 when she had an episode of atrial fibrillation with rapidventricular responseto 130s to 140s. she was effectively treated withlopressor 25mg x1 , 5 mg iv x2 , then diltiazem 10 mg x1. the patient laterthen converted to sinus rhythm , sinus bradycardia. on 6/8 , thepatient had a 12-22 symptomatic ventricular pause. the consultingcardiologist ( dr. siebel ) was notified of the atrialfibrillation and ventricular pause event. dr. pinetrecommended starting an amiodarone load which has beenimplemented and is currently in progress. he recommended noinpatient ep eval this admission because the patient had nofurther symptomatic pauses. dr. selma deferring decision andarrangements for holter versus loop monitors to the patient'soutpatient cardiologist dr. baldrigeaccording to the prior cardiac cath reports , the patient shouldbe on lifelong plavix. it is dr. stayrook 's preference forthe patient to be started on thromboembolic prophylatic coumadin( in the setting of paroxysmals of atrial fibrillation ) and todiscontinue the aspirin because of possible bleeding risk oncombination aspirin , plavix and coumadin. however , he isdeferring this decision to be made by the patient's outpatientcardiologist.blood pressure: the cardiologist consultation dr.miehe felt that the chest pain and hypertension symptoms couldbe consistent with recurrence of renal artery stenosis. on10/27/07 , a doppler renal ultrasound was notable for significantre-stenosis of the left renal artery. the patient anangioplasty and stent was placed without peri-procedurecomplication aside from the possibility of small blood loss ( aswill be described in heme section below ).2. hematology: the patient has baseline hypoproliferativenormocytic normochromic anemia of chronic disease identified byiron studies. her b12 and folate levels were within normallimits. on 11/8 , the patient had a hematocrit drop from30-26 , but this was considered to be either a lab variant or dueto blood loss in her subcutaneous tissue from previous lovenoxinjections. lovenox was discontinued and the team decided to useteds alone for dvt prophylaxis as the patient was ambulatory. on10/28 , one day post-angio intervention , the patient was complaining oflethargy. she had a post-procedure crit drop from 30-25 which therepeat study was stable at 25. her hemodynamicswas also stable as was her leg exam. the angiography teamadvised that the hematocrit drop could be as result of blood lossfrom recent angio intervention. the angio team advised thatthere will be no need to pursue imaging to search for sourceof blood loss unless the patient has further hematocrit drop or unless shedevelops leg , abdominal and back pain symptoms. because of thepatient's history of coronary disease , she was ordered for a 2unitsa blood. she only received one unit of blood becauseshe was symptomatic with hypertension and chest pain when thesecond bag was hung ( see cardiovascular pump section above ).post-transfusion hematocrit was 30.1 and was felt no furtherblood would be needed.3. endocrine: the patient has a history of diabetes. duringthis admission , her oral agents were held and the team implemented thegatea insulin diabetic protocol using nph basalinsulin and pre-prandial aspart scales. the hemoglobin a1c was6.8.4. fluids , electrolytes , nutrition/renal: the patient hadessentially stable renal function during this admission. achange in the patient's creatinine from 7/28/28 wasattributed to medication-induced ( likely from recent lisinoprildose increased from last gcgh admit , and/or dehydration ). lasix wasand ace inhibitor were both held. lasix and ace were bothrestarted on 3/1 ( see cardiovascular section above ).5. gastrointestinal: during this admission the patient hadreported crampy abdominal pain and diarrhea. the medical teamsuspects possible cause could be ischemia in the setting ofhypertension , as the patient has significant celiac disease thatwas identified on an mra obtained at palmtial in 10/13 allstool studies were negative and as on 9/6 her diarrhearesolved.6. misc: after a lengthy discussion with the patient , she opted to be adni otherwise wanted all other resuscitative measures.impression: this is an 82-year-old female who presents withcomplaints of intermittent lightheadedness and sudden onset ofsevere chest and abdominal pressure in the setting ofhypertensive urgency with documented blood pressure of 194/74.her symptoms resolved with blood pressure control. the medicalteam suspects that:1. the cause of the patient's episodic lightheadedness promptingmultiple visits to the d.sen health may be from atrialfibrillation with rvr and/or ventricular pauses. additionalworkup for this can be pursued by dr. gehrer as an outpatient.2. given the significant history of vascular disease and thefindings on recent mra , the team suspects that the patient mayhave hypertension-induced gut ischemia and microvascular cardiacangina.this is preliminary discharge summary and the discharge addendumincluding discharge medications , final diagnoses and medicalfollowup will need to be dictated at the time of discharge.escription document: 1-5694568 cssten teldictated by: emmerling , quintonattending: thon , kerrydictation id 5456663d: 9/5/07t: 4/29/07