record #246574362391161 | lcmc | 24555208 | | 7424940 | 10/6/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 11/30/2005 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: hogge , williams daren mdchief complaint: elective right total knee replacement.history of present illness: the patient is a 70-year-old womanwith multiple medical problems including asthma , interstitiallung disease and autoimmune hepatitis leading to cirrhosis withvarices , hypersplenism and thrombocytopenia. prior to admissionshe lived with her husband and was independent with activities ofdaily living. she was limited by right knee pain. she wasadmitted to roundcleod valley medical center 9/28/05 for electiveright total knee replacement.past medical history: migraine headaches , interstitial lungdisease , asthma , reflux , hepatitis a , autoimmune hepatitisleading to cirrhosis with varices , hypersplenism , andthrombocytopenia , coagulopathy , chronic diarrhea x10 years ,status post cholecystectomy , osteoporosis , l4 compressionfracture , osteoarthritis.home medications:1. valium.2. advair.3. combivent.4. prednisone5. nexium.6. propranolol.7. lasix.8. spironolactone.allergies: no known drug allergies.social history: the patient does not smoke cigarettes or drinkalcohol. she is married with four children.admission labs: potassium 4.3 , white blood cell count 9.9 ,hematocrit 26.3 , platelets 61 , inr 1.3.admission exam: first documented by the orthopedic team: alertand oriented , afebrile. pulse in the 70s and sinus. bloodpressure in the 90s/50s. satting 100% on 2 liters. thin ,elderly woman , faint bibasilar crackles. regular rate andrhythm. abdomen: soft and nontender. extremities: warm.admission imaging: portable chest x-ray on 10/1/05 with patchyopacity in the left lung base , likely atelectasis.admission ekg: normal sinus rhythm , normal axis. qtc 464. lvh ,t-wave inversion in 3 , t-wave flattening in avf , t-waveflattening in v3 through v6.hospital course by system:1. ortho: right knee replacement. the patient underwent anuncomplicated right knee replacement on admission. subsequentlyher leg was immobilized as per orthopedic recommendations. thereason for immobilization was that movement of the right lowerextremity might precipitate skin tears.2. skin: the patient incurred a laceration in her left calfperioperatively. she also incurred a skin tear on 10/0/05 withturning in the bed. her skin was noted to be paper thin withunderlying fluid. wound healing was impaired secondary to lowalbumin and chronic steroid use. the patient was seen by theplastic surgery team. this team recommended appropriatedressings for the patient's skin tears. the team also graftedthe left thigh skin tear. the patient was treated withsupplemental vitamins to promote wound healing including vitamina and zinc. she was also treated with antibiotics to preventskin infections. originally she had been on vancomycin for aurinary tract infection and when the course was complete for theurinary tract infection , the patient was switched to keflex forprophylaxis versus skin infections.3. gi: end stage liver disease with varices andthrombocytopenia. the patient's complete metabolic panel andcoags were checked each day. during the course of herhospitalization , the patient's transaminases were relativelystable , but her alkaline phosphatase trended upward. on exam ,the patient had mild right upper quadrant tenderness which shereported was chronic. on 1/24/05 , the patient underwent anabdominal ultrasound to evaluate her right upper quadranttenderness and elevated alk/phos. this study revealed a 2.0 x1.6 x 1.6 cm hyperechoic mass in the portahepatis. this studyalso showed evidence of cirrhosis as well as common bile ductdilation and splenomegaly. a ct scan to further evaluate theportahepatic mass was recommended. for her autoimmune hepatitis ,the patient was continued on prednisone. for her varices , shewas continued on propranolol. her lasix and spironolactone wereheld through much of her hospitalization. on 10/23/05 , her lasixwas restarted in an attempt to remedy her hyponatremia.4. low albumin state: the patient has a low prealbuminsuggestive of decreased po intake versus decreased syntheticfunction of the liver. the patient also has chronic diarrhea andwas thought to be wasting protein. the patient refused ??___??placement for tube feeds. she was initially on a house diet withensure and boost supplements as well as mvi and lactinexgranules. the patient was not taking in adequate calories. on10/23/05 , tpn was initiated.5. persistent chronic diarrhea: the patient has a history ofchronic diarrhea. stool studies including c. diff testing wasnegative. the patient was also tested for celiac sprue and thistesting , too , came back negative. the patient was treatedsymptomatically with imodium.6. gerd: this patient was treated with nexium and p.r.n.maalox.7. dysphagia: the patient reported trouble swallowing. she wasevaluated by the speech and swallow team on 6/16/05. herswallowing function was noted to be intact.8. infectious disease:postoperative prophylaxis: immediately postoperatively , thepatient was initially treated with clindamycin for prophylaxisversus perioperative infection.skin prophylaxis: the patient was initially treated withvancomycin and switched to keflex.urinary tract infection: the patient had a series of dirty ua's.she was ultimately treated with vancomycin for a urine culturethat grew out resistant staph species. she finished her courseof vancomycin on 10/15/05. a repeat ua was noted to be positivefor infection. a repeat urine culture is pending.odynophagia: the patient reported trouble swallowing. she wastreated empirically with fluconazole and clotrimazole foresophageal candida. this treatment did not remedy her pain inswallowing. the patient then developed mouth sores. hsv swabsof these sores are pending. the patient was treatedsymptomatically with viscous lidocaine.9. pulmonary: the patient has a history of interstitial lungdisease and asthma. she was treated with combivent and standingnebulizer treatments. on 0/9/05 , the patient was noted to havea new oxygen requirement of 3 to 4 liters. differentialdiagnosis was pe versus pneumonia versus volume overload. on0/9/05 , the patient had a chest x-ray which showed left lowerlobe atelectasis. a repeat chest x-ray on 9/29/05 was read asnormal. on 7/7/05 , the patient was weaned down to room air.10. neuro:pain: the patient was treated with standing codeine sulfate.nausea: the patient was treated with p.r.n. compazine.11. cardiovascular:pump: the patient has no known heart failure. in terms of hervolume status , she was deemed to be intravascularly depleted asevidenced by prerenal urine electrolytes. she was thought ,however , to be total body volume overloaded. it was thought thatin the setting of her low albumin , she was third-spacing fluid.the patient was intermittently treated with normal saline andspa. on 10/23/05 , normal saline was held and the patient wastreated with spa in conjunction with lasix.rhythm: the patient had normal sinus rhythm. she was monitoredon telemetry.ischemia: the patient has no known history of coronary arterydisease. she had no chest pain. her cardiac markers werenegative. her ekg had nonspecific abnormalities. she wascontinued on her beta-blocker. she was not on an aspirin givenher thrombocytopenia.12. renal: decreased urine output. from the day of admissiononward , the patient had relative oliguria , 500 to 900 cc of urineper day approximately. her creatinine trended downward from avalue of 0.5 on admission down to as low as 0.2. as noted above ,the patient was intermittently treated with normal saline and spaversus spa and lasix.13. hyponatremia: the patient developed asymptomatichyponatremia. this hyponatremia was not responsive to fluidrestriction. on 10/23/05 , the patient was treated with lasix andspa as noted above. tsh , cortisol and uric acid were checked torule out other etiologies of hyponatremia. the results of thesestudies are pending.14. endocrine: the patient has steroid induced diabetes. she wastreated with lantus and sliding scale insulin.15. heme: anemia: the patient had normal iron studies , b12 andfolate.16. thrombocytopenia: the patient's thrombocytopenia is mostlikely secondary to splenic sequestration. an antiplateletfactor 4 test was sent and is pending.17. anticoagulation: the patient had two indications foranticoagulation. the first was right total knee replacement.the second was a right lower extremity superficial femoral dvtdiscovered on 10/9/05. the goal inr for this patient wasdetermined to be 1.5 to 2. it was thought that the patient wasat bleeding risk with a higher inr given her known varices andher thrombocytopenia. from 11/3/05 onward , the patient's inr wassupertherapeutic and her coumadin was held. it was thought thatthe supertherapeutic inr could relate to coumadin effects versusnutritional deficiencies versus worsening of her function.18. musculoskeletal: osteoporosis: the patient was treated withcholecalciferol.19. physical therapy: the patient was followed by the physicaltherapy team.20. access: the patient had a pic line in place.discharge medications , the remainder of the hospital course anddisposition will be dictated by dr. steven jaksicescription document: 7-3973589 xelentered by: hepa , sethattending: degrella , hershel garrydictation id 6804628d: 11/28/05t: 11/28/05[report_end]