165906830 | um | 80659507 | | 4617884 | 10/21/2005 12:00:00 am | congestive heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 5/19/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 7/3/2005attending: hoeger , bennett mdinterim physician: ben manthe , mdattending physician: diego lotton , mdservice: cardiology gatespi blvd , spolavale , pennsylvania 18616the condition responsible for causing this admission iscongestive heart failure exacerbation. other diagnoses includeleft bundle branch block , paresthesias in the fingers , benignprostatic hypertrophy , prostatic adenocarcinoma , gleason's score2/4 , c5-c6 and c6-c7 disk disease , status post left nephrectomyfor renal cell carcinoma , hyperplastic polyps in 1993 and alsostatus post aicd and dual chamber pacer.history of present illness: the patient is a 73-year-old malewell known to the chf service with long-standing new york heartassociation class 3b idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy presentingwith shortness of breath and increasing orthopnea over the lastnight prior to admission from 8 to 9 p.m. the patient first wentto an medical center er then left ama without further treatment afterwaiting four hours. he reports increasing cough with whitesputum since 5/8 , dyspnea on exertion and orthopnea especiallyover the last three days. also there is a questionable increasein abdominal distention. the patient had been admitted fivetimes in the last six months with the last admission also forworsening dyspnea on exertion , orthopnea and cough in which henotably had a tee-guided cardioversion and diuresis. he wasdischarged on creatinine of 1.7. the patient freely admits thathe has had dietary indiscretion over the last two months ,claiming that he has been "eating like a horse" with meat andheavy sauces on pasta. the patient denies chest pain , fevers ,sick contacts , chills , weight gain or nausea.allergies: the patient has allergies to erythromycin andpenicillin , which causes a rash. he also describes an allergy tocontrast.physical examination: the patient was alert and oriented and inno acute distress with blood pressure of 82/62 , heart rate of 80beats per minute. his heent exam was unremarkable. carotidupstrokes were brisk without bruits. there were no thyromegalyand his chest exam was clear to auscultation and percussion.cardiac exam did demonstrate jvp of about 18 cm and also regularrate and rhythm with an s1 , s2 as well as an s3 and 1/6holosystolic murmur at the apex. the abdominal exam was notablefor an enlarged abdomen , but nondistended and without pulsatilepalpable liver edge. there was no tenderness to palpation. theextremities were warm and with 1+ distal pulses and only traceedema.laboratory data: on admission were notable for bun of 45 ,creatinine of 1.6 , k of 4.3 and sodium of 136. the inr was 1.3.hospital course by systems:1. cardiovascular. the patient was in volume overload and hisarb and aldactone were held. aggressive diuresis was undertakenfor most of this stay including an iv lasix drip , which was laterweaned to a torsemide iv b.i.d. which was later changed to p.o.b.i.d. for a questionable reaction to the iv formation in theform of itchiness. he was also put on zaroxolyn throughout thestay and he was started on dopamine drip , which was laterdiscontinued on 7/20/05 for long runs of nsvt that he hadpossibly secondary to sensitivity to the dopamine. however ,dobutamine was started on 2/11/05 and this dosage was increasedgradually over 8/1/05 to 1/19/05 to rate about 3 mcg/kg andthe patient tolerated this dosage fairly well. in addition ,electrolytes were repleted throughout the stay and the patientunderwent a workup for an lvad placement including pfts ,peripheral and carotid dopplers and an abdominal ultrasound. he was shown tohave significant aortic vascular disease which was felt to represent acontra-indication for lvad. discussion ongoing with the patient during hisstay revealed that he would prefer not to have the lvadeven if he were eligible. he understood that he was not likely to live longwith the severity of his heart failure. the decision was later made to sendthe patient home with a hickman catheter placed on 11/6/05 , so that he couldreceive home dobutamine. in terms of ischemia , the first set ofenzymes were flat and ischemia was judged not to be an activeissue. there were no changes on ekg. in terms of rhythm , thepatient does have history of prior afib , however , he has remainedin normal sinus rhythm , status post cardioversion. he has hadasymptomatic runs of nsvt on the dopamine and less so on thedobutamine as mentioned above. currently he was paced with anaicd. we kept the patient on amiodarone and digoxin as well ason tele.2. renal: the patient has a history of chronic renalinsufficiency and is status post left nephrectomy. we monitoredthe patient's bun and creatinine while diuresing and although ,the patient did have an increased bun to about 70 , diuretictreatment was continued as a primary goal.3. endo. the patient has diabetes and we held oral glycemics ,putting him on regular insulin sliding scale and nph doses. alsothe patient had low tsh. this is probably due to subclinicalhypothyroidism or sick euthyroid.4. heme. the patient is on coumadin as an outpatient and wetitrated his inr to a goal of 2-3. the patient did have somenosebleeds on 10/21 and his coumadin was temporarily held , butrestarted again for this goal of 2-3 later. the inr goal wasdecreased less than 1.5 where the placement of hickman catheterwith the plan to restart the coumadin after placement.5. prostate. the patient does have a history of prostateadenocarcinoma , gleason 2/5 on biopsy in 2004. this has beendiscussed with the patient by his urologist and the patient hasrefused surgery now with an increased psa , however , we didconsult a urology while the patient was here and it was deemedthat his prostate should not be a major prognostic considerationgiven the degree of his heart failure.physical exam at discharge , in general the patient wascomfortable and in no apparent distress , sitting up and eatinghis food comfortably as far as the heent and neck exam his jvpwas about 10 cm. cardiovascular exam showed occasional pvcs anda loud p2 and s3. in general unchanged from admission.respiratorywise his lungs were clear to auscultation and breathsounds were equal bilaterally. his abdomen was somewhatdecreased in size from admission , soft and non-tensed.extremities were warm without edema. pulses were 1+ radial anddorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally as with admission he did havesome wasted lower extremities.disposition: the patient will be discharged to home with vnaservices. the plan is to follow his inr on coumadin and tocontinue to monitor his heart for nsvt while on dobutamine. alsoconsider an arb or aldactone. the patient has stable kidneyfunction with decreasing creatinine.discharge medications:1. amiodarone 200 mg p.o. daily.2. digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.i.d.3. iv dobutamine 3 mcg/kg/minute and d5 water continue with iv.4. folate 1 mg p.o. daily.5. zaroxolyn 2.5 mg p.o. q.a.m.6. multivitamin one tablet p.o. daily.7. kcl slow release 40 meq p.o. t.i.d.8. torsemide 200 mg p.o. b.i.d.9. glipizide 10 mg p.o. daily.10. coumadin 3 mg p.o. q.p.m.escription document: 0-5823249 csdictated by: ratkowski , romanattending: kelly rodrigo vondoloski , m.d. gw77dictation id 6618603d: 11/6/05t: 10/10/05