507640124 | vmc | 01484143 | | 891274 | 1/13/1991 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 1/13/1991 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/20/1991discharge diagnoses: unstable angina , admitted forpercutaneous transluminal coronaryangioplasty.hypertension.bilateral renal artery stenosis.status post one episode of atrialfibrillation on 13 of october , withspontaneous resolution.history of present illness: the patient was a 50 year old whitemale transferred fromre hospital after an episode of atrial fibrillation on13 of october , and unstable angina. cardiac risk factors includedhypertension , smoking , family history. he had a myocardialinfarction in 1970 , and had been basically pain-free until 1985 ,when he began experiencing stable angina , requiring one sublingualnitroglycerin every 2 weeks. his typical anginal equivalent isbilateral wrist tingling , plus some left arm or chest pressure. thepain is brought on by exertion , relieved by nitroglycerin and rest.his last exercise tolerance test with thallium was in 26 of september , whenhe went 5 minutes on a standard bruce protocol , and stopped becauseof fatigue. maximal blood pressure was 165/85 , heart rate 95 , ratepressure product 15675. he experienced his typical wristdiscomfort , an his electrocardiogram showed left ventricularhypertrophy with strain , focal premature ventricular contractionsand ventricular bigeminy. there was no evidence of ischemia on thethallium images. on 13 of october , the patient experienced a left armdull ache radiating to the left side of his chest , unlike his usualangina equivalent. it was not relieved by nitroglycerin or byrest. he called his tlakeno rowt. medical center of physician andwent to his local hospital. he denied palpitations , shortness ofbreath , nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis. on presentation , he wasfound to be in atrial fibrillation with ventricular rate 140. hespontaneously converted to normal sinus rhythm and sinusbradycardia to 55. he had no previous history of atrialfibrillation. the patient ruled out for a myocardial infarction ,and while in the hospital experienced 3 to 4 episodes of his usualanginal equivalent of wrist pain , relieved by 1 nitroglycerin eachtime. it was unclear whether these symptoms were associated withelectrocardiogram changes. he received intravenoustrinitroglycerin at some point , and he was transferred here forfurther evaluation of his rest pain. past medical history revealedhypertension , ischemic heart disease as above , peptic ulcerdisease , hiatal hernia. medications on admission at the time oftransfer were diltiazem 90 milligrams by mouth 4 times a day ,lopressor 25 milligrams by mouth twice a day , isordil 40 milligramsby mouth twice a day , lisinopril 5 milligrams by mouth twice a day ,zantac 150 milligrams by mouth at hour of sleep , digoxin .25milligrams by mouth per day. allergies included no known drugallergies. family history was positive for coronary arterydisease. social history revealed the patient has a desk job at afurniture store. he used to smoke 3 packs per day , quit 6 yearsago. he drinks 3 beers a week. he lives with his wife and one sonat home , and 2 other grown children. review of systems wasnegative.physical examination: blood pressure was 190/90 , pulse 60 andregular , respiratory rate 16 , no acutedistress. head and neck examination was unremarkable , jugularvenous pressure flat. chest showed diminished breath soundsdiffusely , no wheezes or crackles. cardiovascular examinationshowed a iii/vi systolic ejection murmur loudest at the aorticarea , and a ii/vi systolic murmur at the apex radiating halfway tothe axilla. abdomen was soft , benign. femoral pulses were 2+bilaterally with bruits left greater than right. extremitiesshowed no cyanosis , clubbing or edema , palpable pedal pulses.neurologic examination was nonfocal.laboratory examination: an echocardiogram at the outside hospitalon 9 of september , showed left atrium size 42millimeters , mild left ventricular hypertrophy , posteriorhypokinesis , preserved systolic function , aortic sclerosis with apeak pressure gradient of 36 mm/hg , read as moderate aorticstenosis with mild aortic regurgitation. the electrocardiogramshowed sinus rhythm at 70 , left axis deviation , left ventricularhypertrophy , left atrial enlargement , t-wave inversion in i andavl , v5 and v6 , strain pattern. chest x-ray was unremarkable.sma-7 was within normal limits , blood urea nitrogen 13 , creatinine1.1.hospital course: while in the hospital , the patient underwentcardiac catheterization with percutaneoustransluminal coronary angioplasty of the left circumflex and rightcoronary artery on 18 of may , and bilateral renal artery angioplastyon 20 of february .  the patient remained in normal sinus rhythm. heexperienced angina on 2 of february , with ischemic changesanterolaterally. he underwent percutaneous transluminal coronaryangioplasty on 18 of may , and his 90% stenosis of the obtuse marginalbranch #2 was reduced to 30% and the 90% right coronary arterydistal lesion was reduced to a 30% residual. he tolerated theprocedure well with no complications. he also underwent renalangiography , which showed bilateral renal artery stenosis , and forthis he underwent bilateral renal artery angioplasty on 20 of february ,which he also tolerated well.renal arteriography and angioplasty were performed becuase of drug-resistanthypertension and continued hypokalemia requiring k repletion evenwhen off diuretics. prior work-up had revealed no evidence forhyperaldosteronism.disposition: condition on discharge was good. medications ondischarge were isordil 30 milligrams by mouth 3 timesa day , zantac 150 milligrams by mouth at hour of sleep , ecotrin 1by mouth per day , k-dur 40 meq by mouth twice a day , nifedipine 30milligrams by mouth 3 times a day , digoxin .25 milligrams by mouthper day , lopressor 100 milligrams by mouth twice a day. it wasfelt that in time his antihypertensives can be adjusted asnecessary.re503/9695michale dearson , m.d. dc25 d: 9/5/91batch: 0102 report: e8453w6 t: 3/9/91dictated by: shirley hiltunen , m.d.cc: 1. jesse tolzmann , m.d.