record date: 2085-11-01edvisit^42521583^zastrow, irene^11/01/85^conner, vickiethe resident's history, physical examination, and evaluationreviewed by me and i concur.  in addition, i personallyinterviewed and examined this patient.history of present illness:  this is a 65-year-old female whopresents for evaluation of chest pain.  the patient had nohistory of coronary artery disease until the last week.  she wasapparently in pennsylvania where she had been for the last week.  shehad been having 5 days of epigastric and substernal discomfort. she considered it to be indigestion and have been taking tums. after approximately 5 days while in pennsylvania, she felt that thediscomfort was not improving.  she did feel like that she hadless energy for her usual activity.  she went to a hospital therein her land of pennsylvania where she was noted to have a positivetroponin.  she underwent a diagnostic catheterization that didshow multivessel disease with an occluded lad.  she subsequentlyunderwent a therapeutic pci with stenting of her lad.  she didhave recurrent chest pain today after catheterization, which wasmuch more severe, sharper in nature per her description.  she wastold in the hospital in pennsylvania that this was due to reperfusion. she returned home today, called her primary care physician andwas advised to come to the emergency department for evaluation. she does state that since discharge from the hospital in pennsylvaniaearlier this week, she has had intermittent episodes of moresevere left anterior chest pain, which she describes as somewhatmore sharp than the indigestion feeling she was experiencingbefore.  it is not always associated with exertion.  it sometimesradiates to her left shoulder.  it is not pleuritic in nature. it seems to be intermittent, although she does have a low levelof dull aching pain, which has been fairly constant since herdischarge from pennsylvania.  she denies any shortness of breath.  sheis able to lie flat.  denies any lower extremity edema.past medical history:  positive for type 1 diabetes, which isfairly brittle per her report.  she is status post mi within thelast week.  she also has a remote history of pe in the past andis no longer on coumadin.social history:  she does not smoke.  she lives with her husbandand has recently returned from pennsylvania.family history:  reviewed and is also positive for cad.review of systems:  all other systems are reviewed and are alsonegative except per the hpi.medications:  include insulin, plavix, aspirin, nexium, lipitor,and atenolol.allergies:  the patient has allergies to iodine and indocin.physical examination:  her temperature is 98.6, her pulse 65,respirations 18, and blood pressure 105/69.  the patient isawake, alert, pleasant female who is reclining in no acutedistress.  her head examination is normocephalic and atraumatic. her pupils are equal and reactive to light.  her sclerae areanicteric.  her conjunctivae are pink and moist.  she has moistmucous membranes and appears well hydrated.  her neck is suppleand nontender with full range of motion.  the jvp is notelevated.  her lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally withequal breath sounds, no respiratory distress.  no accessorymuscle use and no chest wall tenderness.  her cardiac examinationis regular rate and rhythm with no murmur, rub, or gallop.  herabdomen is nondistended, soft, and nontender.  no guarding, noperitoneal signs, and no organomegaly.  her skin is intact, warm,dry, and slightly pale.  there are no rashes.  her back isnontender with full range of motion.  extremities reveal nocyanosis, clubbing, or edema.  her calves are soft and nontenderwith no palpable cords and full range of motion with normalstrength and tone.  she is alert and oriented x3, very pleasant. cranial nerves are intact, and there is no motor or sensorydeficit.  rectal examination performed by the resident revealsheme-negative stool with normal tone.emergency department course:  the patient was placed on a cardiacmonitor.  iv access was maintained.  laboratory studies were sentand ekg was also ordered.  her prior records from pennsylvania werereviewed.  her white blood cell count is 8.4, hematocrit 37, andplatelets 285,000.  her electrolytes are within normal limits. her bun is 18, creatinine 0.8, and glucose 112.  her ck herereturned normal at 33.  her mb was 0.4.  her troponin returnedelevated at 0.39.  this is in comparison to the troponin from herrecords of pennsylvania, which was 0.2.  her d-dimer is less than 200. her inr is 1.1.  the patient had an ekg, which showed evidenceof a new t-wave inversions, present on prior ekg from thishospital.  she was started on heparin for concern of unstableangina status post mi, remained hemodynamically stable, and isadmitted to the cardiac service.diagnosis:  chest pain, rule out unstable angina.______________________________conner, vickie m.d.d: 11/08/85t: 11/08/85dictated by: conner, vickieescription document:6-4710513 bffocus  not reviewed by attending physician 