067946386 | pchamc | 52306412 | | 1935248 | 3/10/2005 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 8/29/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/29/2005attending: jasper wiscombe mdprocedures during admission:1. insertion of a pacemaker , 8/16/05.2. electrophysiology study , 8/16/05.3. cardiac catheterization , 2/5/05.admitting diagnoses:1. third-degree heart block.2. syncope.3. status post motor vehicle collision.4. rule out stroke.principal discharge diagnoses:1. third-degree heart block; resolved.2. status post motor vehicle collision.3. lateral and medial menisci tears , left knee.4. old cva.secondary discharge diagnoses:1. coronary artery disease.2. diabetes.3. hypertension.history of present illness:mr. barriger is a 73-year-old gentleman who is a restrained driverin a single car motor vehicle collision , in which the car wentoff the road at a moderate rate of speed ( approximately 45 milesan hour ) , and struck a telephone pole. there are no skin marksnoted at the scene. there was airbag deployment , and the patientwas wearing a seatbelt. the patient reports feeling "fine" priorto the motor vehicle collision. however , he has no recollectionof the motor vehicle collision itself , and the next thing heremembers is waking up and finding the airbag is deployed , andbeing in severe pain. he does remember ems arriving.upon arrival of the ems , he was found to have a heart rate of 30in a third-degree av block. the patient denies any chest pain ,shortness of breath , nausea or vomiting before the motor vehiclecollision. he also denies any fevers , chills , night sweats ,shortness of breath , headaches or visual changes either before orafter. he had no recent changes in any doses of his medications.he was also complaining of knee pain.ed course: in the emergency department , he was seen by thetrauma team. a full dictation of the emergency departmentcourses has been completed. please see the computer for furtherdetails of this dictation. however , in brief , he had numerouscat scans performed while in the emergency department. theseincluded a cat scan of the abdomen and pelvis , head , and chest.there was also a ct of the cervicothoracic and lumbar spine , withreconstructions performed. as well as plain x-rays films of thelower extremity as well a pelvis , c-spine , and chest. ofsignificance , the plain films of the knee were negative. the catscan of the chest demonstrated a right frontal periventricularhypodensity , which was thought to represent a subacute infarct.he was subsequently admitted to the cardiac step-down floor. hewas seen by the neurology service ( dr. orban , who is theneurology resident ) , who initially saw him.past medical history:1. significant for myocardial infarction , eight years ago. hereceived cardiac stents at that time.2. hypertension.3. hypercholesterolemia.4. diabetes.5. renal cyst.6. cataract.past surgical history:1. significant for coronary stenting; two were placed eightyears ago during his mi , and he had an additional two stentsplaced in september of 2004.2. cataract removal.medications at home:1. glyburide 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.2. metformin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.3. aspirin 81 mg p.o. q. day.4. zocor 80 mg p.o. q. day.5. plavix 75 mg p.o. q. day.6. prilosec 20 mg p.o. q. day.7. isosorbide dinitrate 40 mg p.o. t.i.d.8. atenolol 100 mg p.o. q. day.allergies:he has no known allergies.physical examination upon admission:blood pressure of 123/51 , heart rate of 48 , respiratory rate of16. general appearance: he is a well-developed , well-nourished ,and well-hydrated male , in mildly acute distress. heent:normocephalic and atraumatic. extraocular motions are intact.pupils are equal , round , and reactive to light and accommodationat 4 mm. the conjunctivae are pink and the sclera is anicteric.the oropharynx is significant for a slight bite mark on thetongue , without any active bleeding. there are moist mucosalmembranes. the neck is supple , and there is no midlinetenderness. there is no jvd. the chest is clear toauscultation. there is tenderness over the right ribs , as wellas mild sternal tenderness. the heart is regular rhythm ,although markedly bradycardiac. the abdomen is soft , nontender ,and nondistended. there are good bowel sounds in all fourquadrants. there is no cva tenderness. the pelvis is stable torock. extremities: there is tenderness in the abrasions overthe left knee. the left knee is in an immobilizer , at the timeof admission to the floor. he has full range of motion inankles , shoulders , and elbows bilaterally. there is decreasedrange of motion in the left knee. there is no bony tendernessalong any of the long bones of the upper or lower extremities ,with exception of the knee. peripheral vascular , dorsalis pedis ,posterior , tibial , and radial pulses are all equal bilaterally.neuro exam: he is awake , alert , and oriented x3. cranial nervesii-xii are intact. motor is 5/5 in the upper and lowerextremities bilaterally. sensation is equal bilaterally , in theupper extremities , lower extremities , and face. there is nodysmetria or dysarthria. finger-to-nose is fast and accuratebilaterally. there is no drift. skin is warm , dry , andwell-perfused.laboratory data upon admission:ct c-spine negative. ct head shows a right frontal subacuteinfarct. ct chest shows anterior fifth rib fracturesbilaterally. there was also some supraclavicular stranding alongthe left side , without any evidence of vessel injury. ct of theabdomen and pelvis is negative , except for a ruptured renal cyst.he was also incidentally noted to show diverticulosis , withoutany diverticulitis. the ct of the thoracic and lumbar spinesalso demonstrated no fractures , although there were incidentallynoted to be anterior osteophytes in numerous levels. ct of thechest demonstrated the rib fractures , but was otherwise negative.laboratory , sodium 138 , potassium 4.4 , chloride 103 , bicarbonate25 , bun 28 , creatinine 1.3 , glucose 185 , and anion gap is 10 , astand alt are 20 and 25 respectively. alkaline phosphatase is 80.lipase is 51. calcium is 8.8 , the albumin is 4.6 , the ck is 89 ,ckmb is 3.6 , and troponin was less than assay. his serumtoxicology screen was negative for aspirin , tylenol ,benzodiazepine , barbiturates , and tricyclics. urine drug screenis also negative. pt , ptt , and inr were 13 , 25.8 , and 0.9respectively. cbc was significant for white count of 12.0 ,hemoglobin and hematocrit were 14.6 and 42.2 , and platelets are250. urinalysis was negative.review of the prehospital ekg demonstrated a complete( third-degree ) heart block. however , ekg done immediately uponadmission to the trauma bay demonstrated a bifascicular block ,with a rate in the 40s.hospital course by systems:1. cardiovascular: he was admitted to the cardiac step-downunit. he had zoll pacer pads were placed upon his chest , andatropine remained at his bedside. he also had an additional zollpacer pads , as well as the pacemaker standby at the bedside ,however , these were not needed , as he has completed asymptomaticwith his bifascicular block. he had serial enzymes , which wereperformed , he was ruled out for myocardial infarction. he wentto the cardiac cath lab , which demonstrated some coronary arterydisease. please see the dictated cardiology reports for thefindings of the cath lab. it was felt , however , this wasunchanged from prior studies. he also went to theelectrophysiology lab. they were unable to induce anyventricular tachycardia or other dysrhythmias during theprolonged ep studies. he had a pacemaker inserted. thepacemaker was followed by the electrophysiology service , and wasfound to be working adequately. the attending was dr. matt duropan ,with the electrophysiology service. dr. caires with thecardiology service saw him and was attending on record.2. neurology: he was seen by the neurology service. so , thiswas under dr. edgardo mccorison , the attending neurologist on thecase. he had an mri/mra performed of his head and neck. thediffusion-weighted images demonstrated no evidence of anyabnormality. there was a region of increase signal intensity onthe t2 and flair images , involving the vasoganglion , extendingthe corona radiata. therefore , given the fact that signal wasseen on the t2 and flair , not on the diffusion-weighted , it wasfelt that this was at least 10 days old. therefore , this was notfelt to be either the cause nor an affect of the motor vehiclecollision. it was most likely represented an old cva , which wasnot previously detected. given the fact that the patientremained asymptomatic , and had a normal neurological exam , andradiographic data demonstrated that this infarct was more than 10days old , and this was not further addressed. an mra of his headand neck demonstrated tortuous vertebrobasilar system. themri/mra of the neck was essentially normal , however , the leftbifurcation was thought to be without any significant stenosis.the right bifurcation is probably without significant stenosis ,however , could not be completed excluded. given artifact , thiscould be further followed up with an outpatient venous duplex ofthe carotid arteries.3. musculoskeletal: he was seen by the orthopedic service inthe emergency department at the time of the trauma , he ultimatelyhad an mri that was performed of his knee. this showed tears ofthe medial and lateral menisci. there was no evidence offracture. he remained in a knee immobilizer. he saw physicaltherapy , which felt that further therapy would be indicated.with the impression of the orthopedic service that no acuteintervention was needed , and that he should follow-up with sportsmedicine or orthopedics in approximately 3-4 weeks. in addition ,he was noted to have several rib fractures. the rib fractureswere felt to be the source of his pain , he continue to complainof some inspiratory pain throughout his chest. however , headamantly denied any pain throughout his chest wall uponinspiring. it was therefore felt that given the negative enzymesand the negative cath , and the known rib fractures that the chestpain was strictly a result of a musculoskeletal pain. this painwas well controlled with the combination of dilaudid andoxycodone. he was encouraged to take several deep breaths perhour to reduce the risk of atelectasis or pneumonia.4. infectious disease: there was no evidence of any acuteinfection. of note , his white count was trending upwards , on thelast two days of admission. it was felt that this probablyrepresented stress , given all the recent procedures that weredone , including the catheterization and the electrophysiologystudies , rather than a2 infection. the chest x-ray was performedon the 25th , which demonstrated no infiltrate. this was reviewedwith an attending radiologist who reported low lung volumes.otherwise , it was essentially negative. in addition , a repeaturinalysis was performed. the results are pending at the time ofdictation , however , will be followed up prior to the patient'sdischarge from the hospital. the patient appears well , andstates that he is feeling at his best since the accident.however , further workup for his white count is not performed atthe present time , however , the patient is informed , as the no hospital and the discharge summary , which show that the patientseem to develop any evidence of infection that he should bereevaluated by a physician.5. nutrition: the patient is able to eat without anydifficulty. he was eating regular house diabetic/cardiac diet.6. hypercholesterolemia: he was continued on his zocorthroughout the hospitalization.7. prophylaxis: he was initially treated with lovenox 40 mgsub-q. q. day for a prophylaxis against dvts. he is also onaspirin and plavix for secondary cardiac and neurologicalprophylaxis. the lovenox is discontinued , at the request of theelectrophysiology service on the 24th.8. endocrine: given the numerous contrast studies , initiallyhis metformin was held. however , he was later restarted on this.in addition , he was continued on his glyburide and covered withsliding scale insulin. his blood sugar was never any significantproblem during his hospitalization.9. disposition: the patient will be going to missp medical center , instable condition. at the rehab , he will continue to get physicaltherapy , which he has received in the hospital. it was felt thata short course of rehab would benefit the patient to allow him togo back living independently again. he will be discharged to therehab in stable condition.medications at discharge:1. tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain.2. aspirin 81 mg p.o. q. day.3. atenolol 100 mg p.o. q. day.4. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.5. glyburide 5 mg p.o. b.i.d.6. dilaudid 1-2 mg iv q.4h. p.r.n. pain.7. isosorbide dinitrate 40 mg p.o. t.i.d.8. ativan 1-2 mg iv p.r.n. anxiety.9. oxycodone 5-10 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. pain.10. senna tablets 2 p.o. b.i.d.11. keflex 250 mg p.o. q.i.d. x12 doses. keflex should becompleted on monday night.12. zocor 80 mg p.o. q.h.s.13. ambien 5 mg p.o. q.h.s.14. tessalon 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. cough.15. plavix 75 mg p.o. q. day.16. novalog slides.17. prilosec 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.18. maalox 1-2 tabs p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. pain.the patient has following discharge appointments. he hasappointments with dr. jc rizzo , with sports medicine , dr.mac gladwin in 10-14 days , and dr. aldo helger in oneweek. appointment with dr. mittman is in 3 weeks.addendum:mr. flentge had this pacemaker placed and was recoveringuneventfully. however , it was noted that he started havingincreasing white count. it was felt this was perhaps due to amild urine infection and was started on levaquin. however , hestarted the next day complaining increasing pain in his knee. atthis time , his white count had risen to 23 , 000. the knee wasobviously a concern for possible infection. his knee was warm ,was tender and was erythematous , compared to the contralateralside. as a result , the orthopedic service was again consulted.an arthrocentesis was performed on his left knee , this was a drytap; no fluid was able to be obtained. the subsequent day , hewas complaining of increasing pain , and the sed rate returned inthe 99 with a crp of 190. the ep service again evaluated thepatient , and felt that there was no evidence of any clearinfection from the pacer site. he continued to have no erythemaor tenderness around the pacer site. his chest x-ray wasessentially unremarkable. the next day ( 10/9/05 ) , he was seenby the rheumatology service , under dr. burris who also felt thiswas most likely to be prepatellar bursitis , probably septic innature , with a hematoma. he was asked to seen by the infectiousdisease service , under dr. ferlic and lou marzinskehe was started on ancef 1 gm q.8h. a picc line will be placedlater today on the 5/15/05 and he will be discharged to rehab.of note , he has been afebrile for more than 48 hours while on theancef , and his white count has improved dramatically , into theapproximately 10000 range. he will continue to get iv ancefq.8h. for an additional 12 days. new consultants on the case ,again dr. hempe and dr. bradford mcguigan with infectiousdisease , dr borde and dr. frances thackston with orthopedics and dr.gangwer with rheumatology.escription document: 5-5244513 iscc: claudio shreve m.d.ynealwell healthcare medicinecc: fredrick paciorek mdoh athensphcc: jonathan counterman m.d.stockfaycc: michel patera mdla aver colncc: brian vecellio mdcardiac arrhythmia service statesson rankwarmchusetts burg medicalandvirg e hason st. , ette villelau jack , indiana 51422cc: thomas skelly mdetteadictated by: shands , wilsonattending: raisbeck , conraddictation id 6501655d: 5/2/05t: 10/1/05