871640238 | wmc | 64322666 | | 8763426 | 8/20/2003 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: report status: signeddischarge date: 6/21/2003date of discharge: 6/21/2003attending: noe demetrius mandella mdadmitting diagnosis: shortness of breath.discharge diagnoses:1. pulmonary fibrosis.2. pulmonary hypertension.3. diverticulitis.4. acute renal failure.5. gout.6. hypertension.7. high cholesterol.8. diabetes mellitus.brief history of present illness: the patient is a 62-year-oldfemale with a past medical history of significant obesity ,diabetes , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , heart failure ,pulmonary fibrosis , on home o2 who presented with shortness ofbreath , and left jaw pain on 8/10/2003 .  she had been in herusual state of health until approximately 6 p.m. on the day ofadmission , when at that time , she suddenly became short ofbreath. she reports that she then sat down in her wheelchair and"passed out." however , it is unclear if the patient actuallylost consciousness. the patient also developed jaw painradiating to her back while emts were present and also complainedof a tug in her chest. the pain was unrelieved by nitroglycerin ,oxygen; it was constant in nature. at the time of her arrival inthe emergency room , the patient was hemodynamically stable withan o2 sat of 99% on room air. she was given sublingual nitratewith no effect. because of her history of coronary arterydisease , she was tried on heparin and aspirin.past medical history:1. pulmonary fibrosis , on home o2.2. reported history of an anterolateral mi.3. diabetes.4. hypertension.5. high cholesterol.medications: on admission , insulin 70/30 22 units q.a.m. 26units q.p.m. , atenolol 25 q.d. , zocor 20 q.d. , zoloft 50 q.d. ,lasix 60 p.o. b.i.d. , neurontin 100 t.i.d. , aspirin , andmultivitamin.allergies: penicillin.physical examination: on admission , temperature was 97 , pulsewas 54-60 , blood pressure was 100-120/50-80 , and o2 sat was 98%to 99% on 6 liters. she was a moderately obese woman in no acutedistress. her lung are notable for crackles at the bases. hercardiac exam was notable for distant heart sounds with a normals1 , s2. she had no pedal edema in her extremities.laboratory data: on admission were notable for a bun andcreatinine of 31 and 1.1. normal lfts the patient's hematocritwas 38. her d-dimer was 736.her ekg showed normal sinus at low voltages , poor r-waveprogression.impression: at the time of admission , the patient was a62-year-old female with morbid obesity and chronic episodes ofshortness of breath , this time accompanied by jaw pain and with ahistory of coronary artery disease and multiple risk factorsconcerning for acute coronary syndrome. the patient wasinitially treated for a possible ischemic event. diagnosis of peresults were considered. however , the patient was nottachycardic. she did not have any chest pain or new o2requirements and had had several workups for pulmonary embolismduring prior hospitalization with similar systems , so therefore ,this was thought to be less likely.hospital course: by system:cardiac. in terms of ischemia , the patient had 3 tests ofcardiac enzymes , which returned negative. she was maintained ontelemetry , and she had ekg checked , which did not reveal anychanges. this was a patient who had a dobutamine mibi , which wasnegative for any evidence of ischemic changes. during the mibi ,there was no evidence of ischemia and/or scar. the patient wascontinued on her outpatient medications including aspirin , zocor ,and atenolol. however , at a later point in her hospitalization ,she became hypotensive at which time her atenolol was temporarilydc'd , but this was restarted prior to discharge. in terms of thepatient's cardiac function , she has a history of chf and is onlasix as an outpatient. an echocardiogram was repeated duringthis hospitalization , which was notable for an ef of 60% ,trace-to-mild mr , moderate tr , and estimated pulmonary systolicpressure at 70 mmhg. the patient was continued on outpatientlasix regimen until at a later point during this hospitalization ,the patient became hypertensive with acute renal failure at whichtime her lasix was discontinued. lasix was restarted prior todischarge. in terms of the patient's rhythm , she had no evidenceof arrhythmias monitored throughout her hospitalization.gi. on 10/10/2003 , the patient developed acute onset of diarrheaand lower abdominal pain. now , this pain was nonradiating ,alternating sharp and dull but constant , associated with nauseaand vomiting , and frequent stools. at times , the stools werenotable for bright red blood. the patient was therefore startedon levofloxacin and flagyl as treatment for diverticulitis versusischemic colitis. to further evaluate this , a ct scan of theabdomen was done , which was notable for a thickened colon for 10cm at the hepatic flexure. given this information , it was the giconsult's opinion that this is most likely consistent withdiverticulitis , and the plan was to treat it aggressively withantibiotics , and once the symptoms resolved , recommended acolonoscopy several weeks after discharge. the patient wascontinued on levofloxacin and flagyl , but then , several dayslater , became hypotensive with systolic blood pressures in the80s. at this time , the patient's antibiotic coverage was changedto include ceptaz and vancomycin , and she also received 1 dose ofgentamicin. by the time of discharge , the patient's abdominalsymptoms have completely resolved. she is no longer having anyabdominal pain , and she needs no longer having any diarrhea andis tolerating a regular diet without any difficulties. the planis for her to have a followup colonoscopy as an outpatient.pulmonary: the patient was admitted for shortness of breath. adifferential diagnosis at that time included chronic pulmonaryembolism versus cardiac etiology versus deconditioning in thesetting of a chronic pulmonary fibrosis. to establish that thepatient did not have any pe , she had lower extremity dopplerexams , which were negative. she also had a pt protocol ct , whichwas negative for any evidence of clots. because the patient doeshave cardiopulmonary hypertension , she was started on coumadin asprophylaxis for any thrombosis in the setting of her low flow inher pulmonary vasculature. throughout this hospitalization , shewas continued on her own home regimen of o2.renal: the patient has baseline chronic renal insufficiency witha baseline creatinine at 1.4 during this hospitalization at atime that her diarrhea was very severe , and when her bloodpressures fell in the 80s , the patient developed acute renalfailure with a peak creatinine of 2.4 with decreased urineoutput. the thought of the team was that this represented arenal failure in the setting of her diarrhea , fluid losses , andhypertension. her pheno was consistent with this at 0.71. shewas treated with aggressive iv fluids. she also had a renalultrasound , which was normal. she did have 1 day of hematuria ,which was thought to be due most likely to foley trauma , whichresolved at the time of discharge.id: the patient's hospital course was notable for a diarrhea asmentioned in gi. she was initially treated with levofloxacin andflagyl and then when she became hypertensive was then change herflagyl , ceptaz , and vancomycin with 1 dose of gentamicin. hersymptoms dramatically improved on these antibiotics on 9/18 shewas changed from iv antibiotics to a p.o. regimen of flagyl andlevofloxacin. the plan is for her to continue a total of 14 daysof antibiotics. i anticipate the last day of antibiotic coveragewill be 2/19/2003 .rheumatology: on 10/27/2003 , the patient was noted to have leftknee pain and was noted to have some focal lateral patellartenderness and swelling. a knee aspirate was performed and uratecrystals were identified , and the patient was diagnosed withgout. because of her chronic renal insufficiency and diarrhea ,the decision was made to treat her gout flare with steroids , andshe is currently is on a steroid taper as treatment.endocrine: the patient has a history of diabetes. she takes70/30 insulin at home. she was initially continued on anoutpatient regimen; however , when she started to begin havingmassive diarrhea , she was taken off her long-acting insulin ,because she was not taking anything by p.o. at this time , shewas not tolerating a regular diet , and her insulin requirementswere increasing. it is recommended that as an outpatient , sheresumes one-half of her regular outpatient insulin dose for 1 or2 days to ensure that her insulin requirements in her diet areappropriate , and then , she should resume her regular insulindosage.discharge medications: include aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. ,atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d. , lasix 60 mg p.o. b.i.d. , zoloft 50 mgp.o. q.d. , zocor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , neurontin 300 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d. , coumadin 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. ,prednisone taper - which involves 10 mg of prednisone on 8/14followed by 5 mg of prednisone on 10/27 , 1/24 , and 3/1 andthen stop , flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. , insulin 70/30 11 unitsq.a.m. 13 units q.p.m. - once it is established that the patienthas returned to her regular diet , this dosage should be doubledto her outpatient regular dose , and flexeril 10 mg p.o. t.i.d.disposition: the patient has been discharged to a rehabfacility.followup: the patient is to follow up with her primary carephysician , dr. hargus following discharge.additional instructions: antibiotics should be continued until2/19/2003 .  the patient should have her inr checked in 3 days.her goal inr is 2. once off levofloxacin , her dose of coumadinmay need to be adjusted.2. the patient should have an outpatient colonoscopy and treatedfor a week to further assess for diverticulitis.3. fingerstick blood glucoses should be followed regularly asthe patient's insulin dose is titrated up to her previousoutpatient dose.escription document: 4-2417824 kffocusdictated by: okrent , reed bookerattending: pegelow , lincoln allendictation id 3363726d: 1/1/03t: 1/1/03