235960043 | znmh | 47251002 | | 451309 | 7/12/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 7/12/1994 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/9/1994history of present illness: the chief complaint is abdominaldistention , nausea , and vomiting.patient is a 49 year old black female with the onset of mildepigastric pain , nausea , and vomiting developing several hoursbefore presentation to the emergency room. she has a history ofhypertension , borderline diabetes mellitus , hiatal hernia , andumbilical hernia. patient went to sleep on the night ofpresentation with mild pain and awoke in the middle of the nightwith more severe pain. the pain was intermittent and came in wavesapproximately every three to five minutes , somewhat positional , andworse with lying or standing. she denied shortness of breath andshe said her last bowel movement was earlier on the evening ofpresentation which the patient reported as normal in consistency.she denied bright red blood per rectum and she denied any urinarytract symptoms. she also denied any gynecological/vaginalsymptoms. past medical history: significant for: 1 ) umbilicalhernia/ventral hernia. 2 ) hiatal hernia. 3 ) bilateral tuballigation. 4 ) left lower extremity venous insufficiency. 5 )hypertension. 6 ) borderline diabetes mellitus. currentmedications: none. allergies: no known drug allergies.physical examination: she was afebrile , heart rate was 76 , bloodpressure of 160/100 , and room air saturationof 89%. general: she was an obese black female in moderatedistress. heent: anicteric and 2+ carotid pulses with no bruits.chest: had distant lung sounds. cardiac: examination was regularwith a i/vi systolic ejection murmur. abdomen: examination waslarge and obese with a ventral supraumbilical hernia with anindistinct fascial edge , partially reduced but possibly with asecond aspect just above the umbilical hernia , a 5-6 cm mass whichwas non-reducible , faint bowel sounds with diffuse tenderness.rectal: she was noted to be guaiac negative on rectal examinationand non-tender. extremities: examination was warm and atraumatic.of note , she had 2+ palpable dorsalis pedis pulses and herposterior tibial pulses were not palpable. her left calf wastender which the patient reported to be chronic and her entire calfwas firm with no cords palpable. neurological: examination wasnon-focal.laboratory examination: her ekg showed a normal sinus rhythm , leftatrial enlargement , question of poor rwave progression , no st or t wave changes , and her chest x-ray wasclear with no active disease. her kub showed the nasogastric tubein place with few air filled loops of small bowel and there was airand stool in the large bowel. her laboratories on admission werenotable for an sma 7 showing a sodium of 141 , potassium of 3.9 ,chloride 95 , carbon dioxide 32 , bun 9 , creatinine 0.8 , glucose of222 , amylase of 33 , her lipase was 10 , white blood cell count was7.8 , her hematocrit was 53.4 , and platelets were 198.hospital course: a nasogastric tube was placed and drained 500 ccof aspirate after 500 cc of emesis. she wasadmitted with a diagnosis of small bowel obstruction with threesupraumbilical reducible hernias and one periumbilical incarceratedhernia. the plan was to take her to the operating room for ventralhernia repair. on 10/1 , she was taken to the operating room andhad a ventral hernia repair. that operation was notable to be areducible umbilical hernia which was noted to be incarceratedwithout any evidence of strangulation. the hernia was repairedwith marlex and mesh. please see the operative note for details.the patient remained intubated after the operation and was taken tothe recovery room intubated. after a slow wean from theventilator , the patient was extubated later in the day on september and required four liters of oxygen by nasal prongs to maintaino2 saturations between 90 and 94%. she also underwent a rule outmyocardial infarction protocol post-operatively and did rule out.of note , the right calf had a palpable cord , lower extremitynon-invasives were scheduled , and the cardiology deep venousthrombosis service was consulted. they felt that her left lowerextremity deep venous thrombosis was chronic deep venous thrombosisand venous insufficiency. they recommended ted stockings andsubcutaneous heparin. she was additionally seen by the pulmonaryservice who suggested getting pulmonary function tests once thepatient was clinically stable and agreed to using ted thigh-highstockings. the deep venous thrombosis service recommendedthigh-high stockings with the pressure of 30 to 40 mm of mercuryduring the day with ted stockings regularly at night with thecontinuation of subcutaneous heparin until fully mobile. onpost-operative day three , the patient's nasogastric tube wasdiscontinued and her diet was advanced. her jackson-pratt drainwas removed. on post-operative day four , the patient had regainedbowel sounds as well as had a bowel movement. her oxygensaturation was 94% on four liters and when the oxygen was removed ,she had a room air saturation between 86 and 88%. she had anechocardiogram to rule out evidence of pulmonary hypertension inthe setting of sleep apnea felt the most likely diagnosis in thispickwickian appearing patient. her echo was without evidence ofpulmonary hypertension. her pulmonary function tests showeddecreased volume , decreased diffusing capacity , and decreased mip.the respiratory service recommended home oxygen therapy to maintainsaturations at 90% at rest and with ambulation. a trial of oxygenat rest and with ambulation was done in the hospital to calculatethe dose of oxygen needed for home therapy. pulmonary as wellrecommended state study as an out-patient and pulmonary follow-up.on post-operative day five , the patient was noted to have erythemaaround her incision , probably a reaction to the tape , however , she ,as well , had a low grade temperature to 100.1. given that she hadhad a mesh placed , she was started on antibiotic prophylaxis forpossible cellulitis. she was started on cephradine 500 q.i.d. forseven days. as well , further discussion was had with therespiratory consultation service. they felt that patient's problemwas chronic with hypoxemia leading to an elevated hematocrit andthat she would require home oxygen. the deep venous thrombosiscardiology service recommended repeating her lower extremitynon-invasives prior to discharge , continuing her on her 30 to 40 mmof mercury stockings during the day , and teds at night. she had afollow-up lower extremity non-invasive on the day of dischargewhich showed a chronic left lower extremity deep venous thrombosiswith venous insufficiency and no evidence of new deep venousthrombosis. they recommended follow-up lower extremitynon-invasives after discharge as an out-patient. the patient wasdischarged in good condition on june , 1994. she isdischarged on home oxygen at two liters by nasal prongs. withthis , she was able to maintain her o2 saturations greater than 90%.on the date of discharge , her saturations were in the 94percentile. she was to be monitored by stuartmer medical center at home.disposition: discharge medications: tylox one to two tabletsq.3-4h. p.r.n. for pain , colace , dulcolax p.r.n. , andcephradine 500 q.i.d. for six days further. she has scheduledfollow-up in the surgical clinic january , ten days afterdischarge , for follow-up of her chronic venous insufficiency inel hospital and the pulmonary clinic with dr. limas on march tofurther evaluate her sleep apnea oxygen requirements.dictated by: thwaites , m.d.attending: scottie n. barahona , m.d. yk87  sh453/5060batch: 7852 index no. zwcyg622jv d: 8/26/95t: 2/2/95cc: 1. dr. huprich2. dr. cuna