057429965 | ich | 11802939 | | 6785209 | 3/22/2006 12:00:00 am | sepsis | signed | dis | admission date: 10/28/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/18/2006attending: raminez , israel m.d.chief complaint:weakness , shortness of breath , and dizziness.history of present illness:this is a 48-year-old female who was discharged to home on1/25/06 from nixma county hospital after an icu admission forpneumonia and klonopin overdose. two days prior to admissionhere , she experienced shortness of breath at rest and somelightheadedness. at baseline , she becomes dyspneic after walking20 feet secondary to obesity and many years of smoking. she alsonotes several days of headache and some questionable darkening inher visual fields bilaterally. she admits that her p.o. intakehas been rather poor since coming home secondary to anorexia andthat she has felt dehydrated. on review of systems , she alsonotes chronic waxing and waning erythema of the right lowerextremity which in recent days has worsened with accompanyingswelling and mild tenderness , although her son says that it hasbeen worse in the past. also , she has noted loose stools since8/4/06. she denies chest pain , pleurisy , abdominal pain , bloodin her stool or urine , dysuria , change in frequency , character orurination , or focal weakness. no new medications other than arecent antibiotic course at dale skin sonmu medical center completed there forpneumonia. she has not taken her lisinopril or methadone in thelast two days. she has no sick contact. she saw her pcp on2/8/06 who found her to be hypotensive and hypoxic and thensent her to ma county hospital ed. her family is not clear on herdischarge diagnosis , but they report that her kidney function wasabnormal and she was dehydrated. she was not admitted. she thencame to the ed at town medical center and clinics for persistent shortness ofbreath and dizziness. in the ed , her vital signs were that shewas afebrile , her systolic blood pressure was in the high 60's ,her heart rate was 110 , respiratory rate in the 30's , and o2saturations were in the high 80's. she was given vancomycin ,levaquin and gentamicin and 3 liters of normal saline. she wasaggressively given fluids and was started on levophed for bloodpressure support. her ekg was notable for low voltage onprecordial leads and borderline right axis deviation. chestx-ray showed cardiomegaly , but otherwise clear. in the micu , herblood pressure was stabilized on levophed , but she was also notedto drop her blood pressure to the 70's when initiated on her homebipap settings.past medical history:she had endocarditis 20 years ago. she has obstructive sleepapnea , on her home bipap , morbid obesity , and hypertension. shehad a right ankle injury more than 20 years ago during the motorvehicle accident , which was complicated by an ankle infection.she has chronic right lower extremity pain and she is onmethadone. she had a klonopin overdose. she had enterobacterpneumonia. she was treated with cefepime at that time ,questionable the vancomycin. she has a questionable diagnosis ofcopd with her extensive smoking history. in a well state , herpco2 was 49 , her o2 saturation is 89% , and she has also historyof depression.medications at home:lisinopril and methadone. she is not taking her lisinopril. shehas in the past taken lisinopril with hydrochlorothiazide.allergies:she is allergic to penicillin and sulfa drugs.social history:she smoked half a pack a day for 30 years. no alcohol for threeyears. no illicit drugs. she lives at home , but does not work.she is on disability.physical examination:she was afebrile , heart rate in the 100's , blood pressure 130/80 ,respiratory of 18 , and o2 saturation 95% on 8 liters of oxygen.she was awake and alert and in no acute distress. she isanicteric , without pallor. she had a thick neck. pulmonary:she had decreased breath sounds and crackles at the basesbilaterally. cardiovascular: she was tachy , regular , butdistant s4. jvp was difficulty to ascertain secondary to neckhabitus. her abdomen was obese , + bowel sounds , nontender andnondistended. extremities were without erythema of her legs , butwith mild swelling of the right lower ankle. the ankles werewithout swelling and with full range of motion. neurologically ,she was alert and oriented , but unfocused in conversation , movingall her extremities. her strength was intact.laboratory studies on admission:please see lmr.assessment and plan:this is a 49-year-old woman with a recent icu stay at an outsidehospital who presented with hypotension , tachycardia , and acuterenal failure. presentation was most consistent with rightpulmonary embolus and right ventricular failure.hospital course by system:1. pulmonary/vascular: there was initial concern for a pe giventhe presentation of severe hypotension , tachycardia , and aagradient without evidence of infection or primary cardiacdisease. an echo showed a dilated rv with depressed rv functionsuggestive of pe. her initial pe scan was nondiagnosticsecondary to poorly timed contrast and motion of the patient. avq scan showed intermediate probability. she was started onheparin drip with a goal of 60 to 80. her second pect showed asmall pe to the right upper lobe , but it was not large enough toexplain her dramatic presentation. the working hypothesis isthat there was a significant recanalization prior to this repeatct which took place two days after the first ct. she wasinitially on oxygen in the icu. she was never intubated. shewas on face mask , and upon transfer to the floor , she was onnasal cannula 4 liters. her o2 saturations were acceptablein-house , although she did desaturate to 90% when she took heroxygen off a night. she multiple times refused bipap while inthe hospital , but she will go back on it when she returns home.2. cardiovascular: she had a mild troponin elevation onadmission , likely secondary to rv strain. she had severehypotension and was on two pressors. she was weaned off of theseon 3/9/06 , but did have an episode of hypotension when herbipap was started. she was given a little bit of low dosedobutamine and then she was weaned off of that on 10/4/06.rhythm: she has no active issues. we continued to hold herlisinopril while in-house. her blood pressures were stable , butnot high enough to withstand on additional blood pressurelowering medication. it was discussed with her pcp that sheperhaps will need this medication restarted as an outpatient.she does have a history of severe hypertension.3. renal: as she was in acute failure on admission with acreatinine of 6.9 , it dropped to 0.5 , most likely this was due toprerenal azotemia and decreased renal perfusion in the setting ofhypotension. hypoperfusion of the kidneys in setting ofhypovolemia and right heart failure resulting in decreased leftventricular preload. mucomyst and bicarb were given prior to thepects of her renal protection. she did not develop anyadditional contrast nephropathy after her ct scans. hercreatinine on discharge was 0.6.4. endocrine: she had a normal increase in her cortisol levelwith acth stimulation. her fingersticks were monitored while shewas in-house and she never had any need for supplemental insulin.5. fen: she was on a house diet.6. id: she was empirically covered on admission withvancomycin , levofloxacin and gentamicin. her antibiotics weregiven again on 10/8/06 and on 2/8/06. there was no evidenceof an infection found , no fever , normal white count , with anormal differential , normal ua , chest x-ray is withoutinfiltrate , and antibiotics were discontinued on 2/5/06. shecontinued to remain afebrile in-house without any evidence ofinfection.7. urology: she did complain of bladder spasms while having thefoley in place. she was started on ditropan. she had multiplenegative urinalysis and urine cultures. once the foley wasdiscontinued , she was able to void and she stopped having bladderspasms. she was started on monistat for a yeast infection.8. allergy: she did have an elevated eosinophilia onpresentation and it was 4% on admission and increased to 8% on2/5/06. on the day of discharge , it was 7.5. there is noclinical evidence of allergy , rheumatic disease or parasiticinfection. her obstructive lung disease may be of an asthmavariant , and there is the possibility she may need inhaledcorticosteroids as an outpatient.9. heme: she was on unfractionated heparin for her presumed peuntil 2/5/06 and then she was changed to lovenox in the morningof that day on 120 mg subq. her weight at that time was 157 kg.her coumadin , her initially given 10 , then a dose of 5 and then 2dose of 7.5. her inr was therapeutic on the day of discharge at2.5. she will continue on the lovenox for two additional days.her inr will be monitored by dr. kid , her pcp.10. psych/addiction: we are continuing her methadone. it hasbeen switched from 20 mg p.o. daily to 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. she wasalso given a little bit of ativan while in-house to help with heragitation and anxiety. she was initially given a little bit ofhaldol , but that was discontinued on 1/29/06 and there was noadditional need for that. she did have a central line placed on10/18/06 , which was discontinued on 2/5/06 without any evidenceof any line infection and without any problems. she was seen bysocial work and pt. the patient refused to go to any sort ofrehab or nursing home. it was decided that the patient wouldreturn home with skilled nursing and with pt as needed.escription document: 8-6509749 emssten teldictated by: mcmain , mitchellattending: mcdugle , vincenzodictation id 5085941d: 11/12/06t: 11/12/06