record #602855491008290 | nsvmc | 25604334 | | 2305655 | 3/16/2005 12:00:00 am | cardiomyopathy | signed | dis | admission date: 11/6/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/30/2005attending: kevin depippo mdprimary medical diagnosis:congestive heart failure.other medical diagnoses:morbid obesity , hypothyroidism , hypertension , history of pooradherence to medical regimen.brief history of present illness:the patient is a 58-year-old woman with medical history asmentioned above and history of idiopathic cardiomyopathy with herlast echocardiogram in 10/6 showing ejection fraction of 35-45%.she presents with approximately 1.5 weeks of increasingshortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion. the patient denieschest pain , fevers or chills but does say that she has had sorethroat and a cough for approximately one week. the cough isproductive of clear frothy sputum. the patient reportscompliance with most of her medicines but states that she is nottaking synthroid and lisinopril because these medications makeher feel bad. she also reports eating submarine sandwiches forthe past week secondary to difficulty shopping and doing hercooking at home. she does not measure her daily weights. shestates that in addition to the synthroid and lisinopril , she isunsure of her other medical regimen as she has run out of some ofher medicines at home.past medical history:as above.allergies:ampicillin causes a rash.social history:the patient has two adult children at home and reports that shedrinks approximately 1/2-1 pint of ethanol over 2-3 days andbinges that occur approximately two times per month.admission data:vital signs: temperature 97 , pulse 76 , blood pressure 150s/80s.note that one read with a small cuff read a blood pressure of200/100 , this was believed to be secondary to inefficient cuffsize. oxygen saturation 94% on room air. in general , thepatient is morbidly obese , in no acute distress , slowlyresponsive to questions with frequent staring episodes. heentexam was significant for mild pharyngeal erythema withoutexudates. neck exam was significant for no lymphadenopathy.jugular venous pressure was elevated although it is difficult toassess secondary to body habitus. lungs showed clear breathsounds although a few crackles were present at the left base.abdomen was morbidly obese but did have active bowel sounds andwas nontender. extremities showed significant subcutaneous fattytissue , however , there was no pitting edema. extremities werewarm throughout. dermatologic exam was significant for dry skinand thin eyebrows. neuro exam revealed 3+ biceps reflexesbilaterally. there was a question of slow relaxation phase.chest x-ray showed mild pulmonary redistribution. ekg wasunchanged from prior , and showed normal sinus rhythm with a firstdegree av block , left axis deviation , left ventricularhypertrophy with poor r-wave progression and nonspecific t-waveabnormalities.laboratory values on admission was significant for creatinine of0.8 , d-dimer was negative at 306 , bnp 2. white blood cell 6.9 ,hematocrit 43.6 , platelets 170 , 000 , magnesium 1.7 , potassium 3.2 ,inr 0.9 , ptt 29.3.initial impression:this is a 58-year-old woman with morbid obesity , dilatedcardiomyopathy and hypothyroidism in the setting of poor medicalcompliance , admitted with likely multifactorial dyspnea onexertion and mild congestive heart failure and decompensation.summary of hospital course:1. cardiovascular:pump: the patient presented with an elevated jvp in the settingof a negative bnp. however the clinical exam was more consistentwith mild failure and the patient was diuresed with 80 mg of ivlasix. she responded to this dose with good urine output andstable renal function test. however , secondary to stressincontinence and difficulty measuring jvp , the patient wasslightly over diuresed while inhouse resulting in an increasingbun to creatinine ratio. on her final day of herhospitalization , all diuretics were held and the patient wasdischarged on her usual regimen of diuretics including lasix 80mg once per day. the patient had been noncompliant with herlisinopril secondary to throat symptoms and reportedly somelightheadedness. therefore she was changed to cozaar 50 mg atthe time of discharge. the patient's discharge weight was 141.5kg and this was estimated to be dry weight for the patient atthis time.rhythm: the patient had first degree av block that was stablefrom old ekgs. she was monitored on telemetry throughout herhospital stay. there were no significant events on telemetryduring this hospitalization.ischemia: rule out mi protocol was initiated in the ed secondaryto vague symptoms. this was continued and the patient ruled outwith serial negative cardiac enzymes x 3. there was nosuggestion of ischemic by ecg criteria as well.2. endocrine: the patient has a long history of noncompliancewith her thyroid hormone replacement and was clearly hypothyroidon this admission. however , secondary to difficulty with blooddraws , thyroid function tests that were ordered were not obtainedon this admission and should be obtained as an outpatient in thenear future. the patient was encouraged to continue taking herthyroid medicine as this may help improve her overall functionalstatus in addition to her cardiomyopathy.discharge medications:lasix 80 mg p.o. q.d. , folate 1 mg p.o. q.d. , potassium chloride20 meq p.o. q.d. , prozac 10 mg p.o. q.d. , ventolin 2 puffsaerosol as needed , levothyroxine 225 mcg p.o. q.d. , multivitamin tabletp.o. q.d. , protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d. , colace 100 mgp.o. b.i.d. , aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. , flonase 1-2 puffs in thenose twice a day , advair diskus one puff twice a day , aldactoneone tablet p.o. q.d. , atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d.followup plans:the patient will have a followup in snowest hospital clinic with her primarycare provider , the day following discharge , since wednesday8/26/05. at this time , routine chem-7 can be obtained toevaluate for improvement in renal function and electrolytestatus. the patient will followup with her cardiologist , dr.roik at her regularly scheduled intervals. tests pending at thetime of discharge , the patient had a transthoracic echocardiogramperformed which is pending at the time of this dictation. thepatient is discharged to home with services in good condition.escription document: 3-2987350 emssten teldictated by: bugos , benitoattending: boisen , sylvesterdictation id 5714074d: 0/9/05t: 0/9/05[report_end]