228734044 | imh | 47679591 | | 623300 | 10/2/1992 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 9/27/1992 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/27/1992chief complaint/history of present illness: the patient is a 41year old female who is status postl5-s1 fusion in 22 of august , who complains of right greater than leftbilateral leg pain with moderate ls spine spasms in the samedistribution as before the first surgery ( s1 area ). she has hadepidural steroid injections during the past year and had no reliefof these symptoms. she is presently unable to work for the past 6weeks. she has been on bedrest for most of the day. she hasminimal relief with non steroidals. she is here for a seconddiskectomy after demonstration on ct of marked recurrence on theright to just above the mid line. she donated 1 unit of autologousblood. past medical history: noteable for the patient having haddifficulty maintaining iv's in the past. she also had urinaryretention after her last surgery. she is otherwise healthy. pastsurgical history: status post l5-s1 diskectomy in 3 of june statuspost tubal ligation; status post cholecystectomy; c. section x 2and tonsillectomy and appendectomy. medications on admission:percocet 4-8 per day. allergies: nkda.physical examination: the lungs were clear to auscultationbilaterally. the heart exam was withinnormal limits. the belly exam was benign. the orthopedic exam wasnoteable for an old well healed surgical scar in the mid line ofthe low back. she had a very limited range of motion of the backsecondary to pain. she was tender over l4-s1 centrally. she hadbilateral sciatic notch tenderness , right greater than left. shehad positive straight leg raising sign at 60 degrees on the rightand 80 degrees on the left. she had positive bowstring sign on theright. she had decreased light touch sensation on the rightlateral thigh , lower leg and foot and otherwise was normal.reflexes demonstrated right 2+ at the knee and 2+ at the anklecompared to 3+ at the knee on the left and 2+ of the ankle. thetoes were bilaterally downgoing. there was no clonus bilaterally.hospital course: the patient was operated on on the day ofadmission undergoing a re-do of l5-s1 disk andl5-s1 posterior lateral fusion with right iliac crest bone grafttaken through the same incision. the patient tolerated thisprocedure well. postoperatively , her hospital course went asfollows by systems: 1 ) neurologic-the patient continued to havesome degree of pain that was noted on weight bearing of the lateralaspect of the right thigh but not progressing much further beyondthat towards the foot as it had preoperatively. the intensity ofthis pain was also somewhat less than it was preoperatively. therewere no significant symptoms on the left. she also had the expectedsurgical pain. 2 ) respiratory-there were no significant issues.the patient did have the history of mild childhood asthma andperioperatively she did demonstrate some end expiratory wheezesthat were treated with ventolin and albertol inhaler treatents.these were resolved by the time of discharge. her o2 saturationswere well maintained throughout her hospital stay. 3 )cardiac-there were no significant issues. 4 ) gi/nutritional-thepatient had no significant problems. she had a bowel movementprior to discharge. her diet was advanced without difficulty.5 ) renal/electrolyte-the patient was able to void when her foleywas discontinued on postoperative day 4. electrolytes were followedand treated on prn basis. 6 ) hemologic-the patient requiredtransfusion of her 1 unit of autologous blood. subsequently , withthe patient on iron gluconate and colace , her hematocrit came from25 after her unit of blood up to 29.1 on her last check prior todischarge. she will be on iron for 1 month postoperatively. thepatient was maintained on compression boots postoperatively untilshe was up and walking more independently. 7 ) infectiousdisease-there were no significant itssues. 8 ) orthopedic-herwound showed excellent signs of healing postoperatively. there wasno evidence of infection at any time and her flaps looked viable atall times. her postoperative neurologic status was as describedabove. the patient was given an orthomol brace which she is towear at all times whenever out of bed.discharge diagnoses: 1. recurrent right l5-s1 disk.2. history of phlebitis and difficulty withiv's.procedures: re-do right l5-s1 diskectomy and l5-s1 posterolateralfusion with right iliac crest bone graft on october ,by dr. jerrod muska .disposition: medications on discharge: percocet 1-2 po q4 hours prn , iron gluconate 325 mg po t.i.d. x 1month , pericolace 100 mg po q.i.d. x 1 month to be held for loosestool , voltaren 50 mg po t.i.d. prn. treatments/frequency: braceto be work whenever out of bed. condition on discharge: stable.disposition: to home. follow up care: with dr. clowers .ap553/1710tracy a. feliu , m.d. td01 d: 7/18/92batch: 7615 report: n6185t78 t: 9/13/92dictated by: tony errico , m.d.