931100381 | spn | 74802632 | | 3838808 | 8/21/2006 12:00:00 am | respiratory failure | signed | dis | admission date: 10/9/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/13/2006attending: spiotta , german m.d.service: general medical service.principal diagnosis: aspiration pneumonia.problems: diabetes , atrial fibrillation , chf , acute renalfailure , thrombocytopenia , elevated lfts , agitation , aspirationand rheumatoid arthritis.history of present illness: ms. vinzant is a 71-year-old womanwith severe obesity who was admitted with hypercarbic respiratoryfailure from a rehabilitation facility for rapid shallowbreathing. on arrival in the emergency department , she was hypoxic andhypoglycemic , responding to fluids , intubation , and transfer to the micu. shewas subsequently transferredout of the medical icu to the general medical floor. of note , she had a recentadmission to th medical center for sepsis secondary tocellulitis and pneumonia , enjoying that admission she developedatn secondary to antibiotic use. ros on arrival to the medicine floor is notpossible , as the patient is disoriented( at baseline ). she does report low back pain ( chronic ) , is moaning at baseline( secondary to stroke/aphasia ) , but appears in nad.past medical history:1. copd , for which she uses bipap at home and no oxygen.2. chf , secondary to diastolic dysfunction. ejection fractionis 55% with no wall motion abnormalities. she does have ahistory of elevated pulmonary artery pressures of 57 above ratereduction.3. obstructive sleep apnea with pickwickian syndrome.4. hypertension.5. sick sinus syndrome , status post pacemaker implantation in2000.6. atrial fibrillation on coumadin.7. angina , status post septal mi.8. hyperlipidemia.9. diabetes type 2 , recently increased to insulin while onstress dose steroids at her last hospitalization.10. osteoporosis.11. rheumatoid arthritis.12. gerd.13. cellulitis , with a recent pneumonia.14. thrombocytopenia.15. iron deficiency.16. cva in 1998 with expressive aphasia.medications on admission: fluconazole , prednisone 20 mg p.o.daily , coumadin 5 mg p.o. daily , aspirin , atorvastatin , imdur ,lasix , norvasc , lisinopril , atenolol , advair , duonebs ,multivitamin , folate , calcium , lispro sliding scale , nph insulin ,senna , colace and oxycodone.allergies: none.social history: the patient lives with her husband who is herhealthcare proxy.family history: noncontributory.physical examination: on admission , temperature 99.1 , heart rate69 , blood pressure 149/77 with an oxygen saturation of 99% on100% nonrebreather. morbidly obese. heent examination is significant for fixedleft pupil secondary to surgery , with a pinpoint right pupil.jvp cannot be assessed secondary to obesity. pulmonary exam issignificant for diffuse rhonchi with wheezing. cardiovascularexamination significant for a 2/6 systolic murmur at the leftlower sternal border. extremities reveal 2+ pitting edema with2+ pulses.laboratory studies: on admission were significant for sodium of149 , bun of 49 , creatinine of 2.3 , glucose of 21 , white count of 13 , hematocritof 34 , platelets of 63 , 000 , an alkaline phosphatase of 284 , altof 82 , total bilirubin of 4.0 , direct bilirubin of 2.0 , albuminof 2.5 and an inr of 2.1. cxr reveals a rll pneumonia.hospital course:1. aspiration pneumonia. the patient was admitted with a rightlower lobe pneumonia. she grew mrsa in her sputum and wastreated with vancomycin , levofloxacin and flagyl. she did welland was extubated on her first hospital day after arriving in themicu. however , she continued to aspirate and failed a bedsideswallow study in the micu. she was stabilized and transported tothe medicine floor on overnight bipap. she again failed bedsideswallow evaluation with thin liquids , and was therefore startedon a very conservative pudding thick puree diet. she didsubsequently aspirate on secretions ( she was not eating at thattime ) and became acutely hypoxic with an abg that showed a ph of7.45 , pco2 of 48 and a po2 of 36. her family was brought in andit was explained that the patient was recurrently aspirating andwas critically ill. a family meeting was held , where it wasdecided that the patient would be dnr/dni , and every attemptwould be made to bring the patient home with hospice. sheactually stabilized from her acute event and was able to weanfrom bipap to 3 l oxygen nasal cannula. nevertheless , thepatient's family understood that her respiratory status remainedtenuous and that she would likely re-aspirate. she wasdischarged home with hospice services per family request.2. chf. the patient diuresed greater than 26 liters during thisadmission. much of this diuresis was without pharmacologicalintervention , although she did receive minimal lasix support. atthe time of discharge , she was tending towards euvolemic or dry and wasnot on any lasix. she was felt to be in the polyuric phase ofatn , which was resolving.3. diabetes. the patient was discharged on insulin nph and asliding scale regular insulin. her doses have been decreasedbecause she was found to be hypoglycemic on admission.4. atrial fibrillation on coumadin. given the patient's historyof bleeding ( she had a gi bleeding while in the micu in thesetting of an inr of 2.0 ) , coumadin was held. on review with themedical team , it was felt that the risk of stroke was faroutweighed by the risk of a significant bleed. therefore , thepatient is not discharged on coumadin.5. acute renal failure. the patient was treated withantibiotics prior to this admission , and developed atn secondaryto that medication. of note , her urine was positive foreosinophils on admission. at the time of discharge , thepatient's creatinine was 2.1 , which in part was due to atn andalso due to significant diuresis. her baseline creatinine is 1.7and she is currently trending downwards.6. thrombocytopenia. the patient is noted to have a chronicthrombocytopenia. this was exacerbated with heparin products ,which were discontinued. she did require platelet transfusionsfor a platelet count of 34 in the setting of acute bright redblood per rectum. however , her platelet count was stable atgreater than 125 on discharge.7. lft abnormalities. a right upper quadrant ultrasound waswithin normal limits , although was of poor quality given thepatient's obese body habitus. she does have a possiblecholestatic picture , but the patient had no other symptoms.given her dnr/dni status with hospice services pending , nofurther workup was performed.8. agitation. the patient is , at baseline , mourning anddisoriented , but responsive. she did require haldol and ativanp.r.n. , but also did well with 1 to 1 interaction. morphine wasadequate for pain control.9. speech and swallow evaluation. the patient failed severalspeech and swallow evaluations. she is put on a pudding thickpuree diet , but this is palliative , as she will very likelyaspirate even on this diet.10. rheumatoid arthritis. the patient was continued onprednisone 20 mg q.a.m.discharge examination: temperature 96 , respiratory rate 22 ,pulse 68 , blood pressure 130/60 , oxygen saturation 99% on 3liters. exam is notable for morbid obesity , coarse breathsounds , right greater than left , large ecchymosis of varyingstages particularly at subcutaneous injection sites , and baselinedisorientation , which is not different from the patient's usualmental status.laboratory studies on discharge: white count 11 , hematocrit 33 ,platelets 214 , 000 , glucose 134 , sodium 148 , chloride 111 , bun 40and creatinine 2.1.discharge medications: albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg q.2 h. p.r.n. ,pepcid 20 mg p.o. at bedtime , insulin nph 4 units sc b.i.d. ,insulin regular sliding scale , ativan 2 to 4 mg p.o. q.6 h.p.r.n. anxiety , metoprolol 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. , prednisone 20 mgp.o. q.a.m. , morphine immediate release 15 to 30 mg p.o. q.3 h.p.r.n. pain , norvasc 5 mg p.o. daily , levofloxacin 500 mg p.o.every other day for a total of two weeks , miconazole 2% topicalpowder b.i.d. , duoneb q.6 h. and dulcolax rectal suppository 10mg pr daily.disposition: the patient is discharged to home in very poorcondition. she is discharged with hospice services for end oflife care.escription document: 4-1288265 cssten teldictated by: milbrodt , johnattending: grissom , gusdictation id 1940169d: 2/10/06t: 2/10/06