387938152 | ch | 75793530 | | 530535 | 10/19/2002 12:00:00 am | hemoptysis | signed | dis | admission date: 2/23/2002 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/19/2002history of present illness: briefly , mr. coxum is a 60-year-old manadmitted to the micu on 3/1 in thesetting of massive hemoptysis. he has an 80 pack year history ofsmoking. he was noted to have upper respiratory symptoms threedays prior to admission. one day prior to admission , he had somepink sputum and shortness of breath. he was admitted to cox hospitalwith possible copd flare. at that time , he had massive hemoptysis ,was intubated and transferred to buohc for further management.initially , he was seen by anesthesia and intubated with a doublelumen ett for airway protection. he was taken to the o.r. thefollowing day and found to have an endobronchial lesion at the leftbifurcation of the upper and lower lobes. samples were taken whichsubsequently revealed clot. an endobronchial blocker was placed.he had no further episodes of hemoptysis. on 3/15 , he had abronchoscopic wang needle biopsy which was nondiagnostic but showedcells suspicious for non small cell lung cell cancer versussquamous metaplasia. he was easily extubated in the evening of3/15 without event.past medical history: hypertension , diabetes , alcohol , paf , bph ,glaucoma , osteoarthritis , dvts , cva of totalright internal carotid and 80% of the left internal carotid artery ,pilonidal cyst.allergies: to keflex.medications at home: zestril 30 , nph , aspirin.meds on transfer: also include diltiazem , levo. and prednisone ,nexium , nitropaste , trazodone , ativan , heparin ,zestril.social history: 80 pack years of tobacco. alcohol in the past.family history: notable for coronary artery disease.hospital course by system: 1. pulmonary: the patient had norepeat episodes of hemoptysis on thisadmission. he received a total body bone scan with no skeletalmetastasis found. ct of the chest on 2/10 revealed consolidationimproved since admission , no hilar or mediastinal lymphadenopathyand low attenuation areas of enlargement within both adrenalglands , unchanged from the admission ct. an abdominal ct showedcalcified gallstone , a left apical adrenal nodule needing furtherimaging and a tiny , hypoattenuating liver lesion in the right liverlobe. a ct scan of the head was negative for metastasis disease.because of the finding in the adrenal glands , an mri of the abdomenwithout contrast was also completed on the day prior to discharge.results of the study are pending. the case was discussed with dr.doogan and dr. amoa and dr. hartt at length. it was decidedthat if there was no evidence of metastatic disease , the patientwould possibly be offered left upper lobectomy for both diagnosticand therapeutic purposes. if there were evidence of metastaticdisease on biopsy of a visible adrenal nodule , then potentialmedical therapy would include chemotherapy and radiation. thepatient did well on the floor with o2 sats remaining in the upper90s on room air. at one point , two days prior to discharge , he diddevelop some mild inspiratory stridor. there was a question ofaspiration pneumonia; however , chest pa and lateral was negative.2. cardiovascular: the patient developed atrial fibrillation inthe setting of hemoptysis. he was loaded with iv amiodarone andsubsequently returned to normal sinus rhythm. he was onmaintenance dose of 200 mg p.o. q. d. and remained in normal sinusrhythm. he also had hypertension and was started on captopril andlopressor for better blood pressure control. amiodarone willlikely be stopped at the time of discharge.3. renal: creatinine has been stable throughout hospital course.4. id: the patient has been on levo. and flagyl for presumedaspiration pneumonia. he completed a two week course of thesemedications. ppd was negative. bal was negative for infectiousorganisms.5. gi: was on nexium for gi prophylaxis. because the patient wasintubated for several days , he had significant swallowingdifficulties with possible aspiration. a video fluoroscopy studyrevealed penetration and aspiration of all consistencies secondaryto decreased epiglottic deflection and moderate residue in thepiriform sinuses. thus the patient received an ng tube andreceived all feeds and pills through it. he is to remain npo untila repeat video fluoroscopy is performed.6. heme: the patient received one unit of packed red blood cellsduring his stay and his hematocrit remained stable thereafter.7. endocrine: the patient required high doses of insulin , notably80 in the a.m. and 85 in the p.m. with some breakthrough doses ofinsulin as well.8. vascular: on the day of discharge , the patient was noted tohave bilateral ankle swelling. however in the setting of normalcreatinine , normal albumin of 3.9 and an echocardiogram with anormal ef , this was not thought to be cardiovascular or renal inorigin. furthermore , the patient had no tenderness to palpationand no pain. lenis were considered.thus the patient was discharged on 8/20/02 in the morning withfollow-up with dr. wickett and dr. alba .discharge medications: artificial tears two drops o.u. t.i.d. ,atenolol 25 mg p.o. q. d. , folate 1 mg p.o.q. d. , nph 85 units in the morning and 80 units in the evening ,zestril 30 mg p.o. q. d , nystatin swish and swallow , thiamine 100mg p.o. q. d. , trazodone 50 mg p.o. q. h.s. , ambien 5 mg p.o. q.h.s. , nexium 20 mg p.o. q. d. , and multivitamin 12/5 ml p.o. q. d.these will be given through the ng tube until he is stable withregards to swallowing.dictated by: alejandro heitschmidt , m.d. wq37attending: joesph ryburn , m.d. ts67  wh755/761742batch: 69709 index no. z6fyjlts74 d: 5/25/02t: 5/25/02cc: 1. korthauer , clark felton bret , m.d.2. jc burkette , m.d.