record #236076725207915 | momc | 95835278 | | 2795094 | 3/30/2006 12:00:00 am | respiratory failure | signed | dis | admission date: 8/0/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 0/22/2006attending: molleker , lowell m.d.chief complaint/reason for admission:confusion , mental status change , and hypercarbic respiratoryfailure.history of present illness:the patient is a 54-year-old woman with history of asthma/copd ,morbid obesity , obstructive sleep apnea , but does not toleratebipap who presented to the emergency room with worseningsomnolence. apparently over the past week the patient has becomeprogressively more confused and lethargic. at baseline , she isalert and oriented and walks intermittently with walker ,although , at most time she is bedbound because of her obesity andan injured knee at the end of march .  over the previous weekapparently , the patient had difficulty with her home oxygenmachine and she felt like she "was not getting any air".apparently , her son had called the company that supplies theoxygen. they had come in and said that he should figure out howto fix it according to him , as she had not been getting oxygenfor the week prior to admission. she had not had any increase incough or sputum production. no fever or chills. no chest pain.no nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea. she also had not any change inher baseline lower extremity swelling/deformity and no increasederythema or pain in her lower extremities. she has not had anyrecent long trips , although she had been somewhat bed bound afterthis knee injury. on the day of admission , the patient hadincreasing shortness of breath , fatigue , and somnolence andapparently hallucinations. the emergency medical service wascalled and she was unarousable at home and they found her oxygensats to be 40%. by the time she in to the er she was lethargicand moaning incoherently. her vitals at that time weretemperature of 97.6 fahrenheit , blood pressure of 178/46 mmhg ,heart rate of 106 and regular , breathing 36 times a minute andsatting 90% on 100% nonrebreather. her fingerstick at that timewas 220. her trachea was intubated and she was given fentanyl ,valium , albuterol , and atrovent nebs and solu-medrol in theemergency room.past medical history:significant for hypertension , severe left ventricularhypertrophy , asthma/copd without known pulmonary function testingin the past , morbid obesity weighing approximately 460 pounds ,obstructive sleep apnea - she could not tolerate cpap in thepast , osteoarthritis , and type 2 diabetes mellitus as well as adistant history of pulmonary embolus. after having a totalabdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy in1/29 , she was anticoagulated for several months , but not sincethen.allergies:no known drug allergies.home medications:lisinopril 40 mg by mouth each day , furosemide 40 mg by moutheach day , glyburide 5 mg by mouth each day , albuterol inhalers ,motrin 600 mg by mouth each day , and metoprolol 25 mg by mouth 3times a day , and she is also on 3l nasal cannula home oxygen 24hours a day.social history:she is a former bus driver. she lives at home with her son ,troisi who is 30 years old , has a visiting nurse. no tobacco oralcohol or illicit drugs.family history:noncontributory.physical examination on admission:her temperature was 97.6 degree fahrenheit , her heart rate was106 and regular , her blood pressure was 130/50 , respiratory rateof 24 , and oxygen saturation 98%. at that point , she wasintubated. she opened her eyes to sternal rub but not to voice.her pupils were equal and 2 mm bilaterally. her neck was supple.pulmonary: sounds were coarse anterior and laterally.cardiovascular: she had distant , distant heart sounds ,tachycardic. her jugular venous pressure was unable to beassessed given her neck size and her distal , radial , and dorsalispedis pulses were all palpable 1+. abdomen is obese. bowelsounds were present , soft , nontender , and nondistended. she hada midline scar. extremities were cool with chronic venostasischanges perhaps lymphedema changes bilaterally. left lowerextremity was 23 inches and right lower extremity was 18 inchesat the calf. neurologic: as stated , she opens her eyes tosternal rub at that time.labs on admission:she had a sodium of 144 , potassium 4.3 , chloride 95 , bicarbonateof 40 , bun of 16 , creatinine of 0.7 , and glucose of 236. calciumof 8.9 , magnesium of 1.9 , phosphorous of 4.7 , alt of 23 , ast of18 , total bilirubin of 2.1 , alkaline phosphatase of 78 , andalbumin of 3.9. urinalysis was significant for 3+ protein , 2+blood , positive leukocyte esterase , negative nitrites , andbacteria as well as trichomonas. her d-dimer was 1330. herwhite count was 13 , 000 with 90% neutrophils , 2% bands , and 5%lymphocytes. her hematocrit was 42.4% and platelet count was164 , 000. her mcv was 93 and she had an anti-pf4 antibody , alsoknown as a hit antibody , which was negative. her inr was 1.2 andher ptt was 26.3. her urine and serum tox screens did not revealany toxins. her chest radiograph was a poor quality film giventhe girth. the film was rotated. the et tube was 3.5 cm fromthe corner , otherwise , extraordinarily limited , but no grossconsolidation or effusions were noted. a pulmonary embolus ctscan or v/q scan were considered to rule out a pulmonary embolus;however , the patient's abdominal girth prevented either of thesestudies from being done. lower extremity noninvasive studieswere performed , which did not show any clot although this wasalso limited by her chronic lower extremity changes. urineculture and blood cultures were sent on 9/11/06 .  the urineculture grew mixed flora and the blood cultures have beennegative to date.assessment at the time of admission:this is a 54-year-old woman with chronic obstructive pulmonarydisease on home oxygen as well as obstructive sleep apnea ,hypertension , and left ventricular hypertrophy and obesity withmental status changes and respiratory changes consistent with anexacerbation of recurrent obstructive pulmonary disease andhypoxemia.hospital course by system:1. pulmonary: her trachea was extubated within several hours ofcoming to the medical intensive care unit. at first , she wasdoing quite well on bipap at 25 and 5; however , she became a bitmore somnolent and the decision was made to intubate her tracheaonce again within several hours. an abg at that time was done ,which revealed an arterial blood gas at that time with an fio2 of60% revealed a ph of 7.19 , a co2 of 119 , and an oxygen of 106with saturation of 97%. as we were preparing to intubate thetrachea , the patient became more alert and requested to speak toher son beforehand and saying she did not want to have the tubedown her throat. her son came in and she continued making moresense and asking us not to intubate her trachea. the decisionwas made to observe her with the bipap , which was done. withinseveral hours her carbon dioxide had decreased to 103 and then by3 hours after that it actually decreased to 80. her arterialblood gas at that time showed ph of 7.32 with a pco2 of 80 , a po2of 71 on 2l of actual nasal cannula and then o2 saturation of95%. she remained on bipap intermittently at various setting.her final settings were pressure support of 20 and a peep of 5.her co2 ranged from the mid 60s to 99 without a very clearcorrelation between her mental status and her co2s. the thoughtwas that her baseline co2 was probably somewhere in the 70s giventhat her ph was normal with pco2 around in the low 80s. it wasthought that she is a chronic carbon dioxide retainer. herbicarbonates on admission here previously had been in the mid tohigh 30s and low 40s just as they were during this admission andthat she just had an acute hypercarbic event. throughout herstay she has had episodes where she become slightly lessresponsive always will awake with appropriate physical stimuliand will give appropriate responses. she was treated for herpulmonary disease initially with corticosteroids , which werediscontinued given that we did not feel that she had large ainflammatory component to this , levofloxacin 500 mg a day ,albuterol and atrovent nebulizers and she was started on aninhaled corticosteroid.2. vascular: the possibility of a pulmonary embolus wasconsidered especially given her history of pulmonary embolus inthe past. unfortunately , diagnostic imaging was inadequate givenher girth and lower extremity issues. there is discussion ofputting her on chronic anticoagulation for the possibility ofpulmonary embolus; however , we felt she had a low to moderateprobability of pulmonary embolus and that the risks of long-termanticoagulation outweigh the benefits given that she probably didnot have a pulmonary embolus or deep venous thrombosis. this wasdiscussed with the patient and she agreed with that decision.this can be readdressed in the future. the decision was alsocentered around the fact that her previous pulmonary embolus wasin the setting of pelvic surgery and likely did not reflex anyincreased likelihood of thrombosis. however , she should becontinued on subcutaneous enoxaparin or other prophylaxis fordeep venous thrombosis while she is bedbound.3. cardiac: the patient has a history of hypertension and leftventricular hypertrophy. she should be continued onenteric-coated aspirin 81 mg a day , lisinopril 40 mg a day , andshe will discharged on atenolol 25 mg per day.4. endocrine: the patient has type 2 diabetes mellitus. she wasmanaged in the hospital on a low dose of insulin nph and aspartsliding scale. on discharge , she will be resumed on her homedose of sulfonylurea. it may be considered that she will be goodcandidate for metformin given her weight and likely poor controlof her diabetes.5. obstructive sleep apnea with known elevated pulmonary arterysystolic pressure at approximately 90+ right atrium andechocardiogram during her last admission at mertaymonpeters medical center .  the patient should be counseled and encouraged to useher bipap or cpap machine at home all the time at night given herlikely severe obstructive sleep apnea and known vascular effectsof that.medication on discharge:1. lisinopril 40 mg by mouth each day.2. atenolol 25 mg by mouth each day.3. enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg by mouth each day.4. enoxaparin 40 mg subcutaneous each day.5. albuterol and atrovent nebulizers every 4 hours and p.r.n.wheezing or shortness of breath , this may be changed to inhalerswhen the patient can tolerate and she should be educated on that.6. flovent.7. levofloxacin 500 mg by mouth each day for 5 more days.8. flagyl 500 mg by mouth twice a day for 11 more days fortreatment of trichomonas.9. glyburide 5 mg by mouth once daily.10. regular insulin sliding scale as determined by the doctor atrehabilitation with meals.11. bipap 20 for pressure support and 5 of peep every night all ,night and during the day as required. it would be recommendedthat she was on bipap continuously for at least 48 hours afterdischarge as tolerated by the patient except to speak with herfamily.escription document: 7-6076445 emssten teldictated by: monserrate , kirbyattending: signorile , brockdictation id 1628332d: 8/6/06t: 8/6/06[report_end]