184066856 | ah | 49993416 | | 5471175 | 2/11/2006 12:00:00 am | fever | signed | dis | admission date: 6/4/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/3/2006attending: borda , winford m.d.outpatient physician:dr. glenn beshore . fax number 973-069-1118.discharge diagnoses:1. vre line sepsis.2. left heel osteomyelitis.3. type i diabetes.4. end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis.chief complaint:fever.history of present illness:this is a 36-year-old woman with a history of type i diabetes ,chronic renal insufficiency on hemodialysis as well as chronicskin ulcers who was at hemodialysis on the day of admission whenshe developed fevers to 101 , chills , and rigors. the patientalso developed diffuse abdominal pain on the afternoon ofadmission and was referred for evaluation. the patient onquestioning reports that she was in her usual state of healthuntil 2 days prior to admission when she began to have abdominalcramping with one episode of diarrhea as well as chills. whileshe was at hemodialysis on the day of admission , the patientbecame febrile with concern for infection and was referred forevaluation at the emergency department.emergency department course:the patient was treated with vancomycin , ceftriaxone , gentamicinand clindamycin in the emergency department. she was alsotreated with regular insulin as well as morphine iv.review of systems:notable for headaches , bilateral lower extremity edema , as wellas shortness of breath , which she reports is better since havingdialysis on the day of admission. the patient does havethree-pillow orthopnea at baseline which is unchanged. shedenies nausea , vomiting , melena , bright red blood per rectum ,dysuria or chest pain.past medical history: type i diabetes , chronic renalinsufficiency , chronic dermal ulcers , history of mrsa , peripheralneuropathy , legally blind , gastropathy , cardiac murmur , seizuredisorder , hepatomegaly , status post excision of infected bonefrom her left heel one month prior to admission.allergies: aspirin causes tongue swelling. codeine ,erythromycin , beef and pork insulin.medications on admission: neurontin , keppra , lisinopril ,oxycodone , lasix , vancomycin , toprol , and insulin , notably lantusand nph.social history: the patient has four children ages 5 through 20.she reports no tobacco , alcohol or iv drug use. the patient'smother is at home watching her children.family history: noncontributory.physical examination on admission: vital signs: temperature103.3 , heart rate 92 , blood pressure 200/95 , respiratory rate of20 , and 96% on room air. general: the patient is a black womanwith multiple skin ulcers notably over her trunk. pupils wereequal , round and reactive to light and accommodation.extraocular muscles were intact. she does have horizontalnystagmus , sclerae are anicteric , jvp was flat. chest: faintright basilar crackles. cardiovascular: s1 , s2 normal , ii/visystolic murmur at the left upper sternal border. carotids 2+without bruit. abdomen: decreased bowel sounds , obese , slightlydistended , mildly tender with deep palpation , no rebound orguarding. extremities 1-2+ edema , left heel open ulcer with foulodor and surrounding erythema. neurological examination grosslynonfocal.laboratory data on admission: sodium 133 , potassium 4.5 , bun 45 ,creatinine 8.2. serum glucose 507 , white blood cell count 14.4with 4 bands. hematocrit 30.3 , platelets 525. normal liverfunction test , lipase 29 normal. urine hcg negative. inr 1.6.urinalysis was slightly positive.studies: chest x-ray revealed an enlarged cardiac silhouetteconcerning for pericardial effusion and bibasilar subsegmentalatelectasis. left foot x-ray showed evidence of osteomyelitis ofthe left calcaneus. abdominal ct showed diffuse retroperitoneallymphadenopathy , pulmonary nodules in the left lower lobe as wellas a low attenuation foci associated with a small bowel ofunclear significance. ekg showed normal sinus rhythm at 85 beatsper minute , normal axis with isolated t-wave inversion in v1.operations and procedures:1. status post wound debridement left heel 4/10/06 by dr.ira pollart , vascular surgery.2. status post hemodialysis tunneled catheter placement leftchest 1/27/06 by interventional radiology.hospital course by system:1. infectious disease: line sepsis. the patient was treatedwith broad-spectrum antibiotics and initially treated withvancomycin , ceftazidime , and clindamycin as well as gentamicin.she underwent a transthoracic echocardiogram that was negativefor valvular vegetation and she showed no stigmata ofendocarditis. she had blood cultures from 8/17/2006 that werepositive for vancomycin resistant enterococcus and her antibioticregimen was changed to linezolid and clindamycin to cover foranaerobes in her left heel. the patient's tunneled hemodialysiscatheter was removed on hospital day #2 in the setting of linesepsis. the patient remained afebrile and will complete a 21-daycourse of linezolid for vre line sepsis. repeat blood cultures show no growthto date. the patientwas also admitted with chronic left heel osteomyelitis. the patient hadplain films that showed evidence of osteomyelitis. the vascularsurgery service was consulted and the patient underwentdebridement of her left heel on 4/10/06 by dr. angeloni and dr.kalan . the patient will most likely need a left below-the-knee amputationin the future most. the patient's wound culture grew outmorganella morganii. however , in discussion with the medicalteam , the patient was not treated with antibiotic coverage forthis positive wound culture. a vacuum dressing was temporarilyplaced to her wound and currently the wound is being treated witht.i.d. wet-to-dry dressings. the patient did have a chest x-raythat could have been compatible with an early left lower lobepneumonia , and had some low grade fevers during this admission. the patientwill also be discharged on a 10 day course of renally dosed levaquin to coverfor possible community acquired pneumonia. the patient also had abdominalpain and fevers on admission and had an abdominal ct scan without evidence ofabdominal abscess or other intraabdominal acute process.2. renal: the patient has end-stage renal disease , onhemodialysis. she had her hemodialysis catheter removal. shehad negative blood cultures from 5/16/06 and the interventionalradiology service placed another left chest tunneled hemodialysiscatheter on 1/27/06 .  the patient was started on nephrocaps ,phoslo as well as plavix during this admission.3. cardiovascular: the patient had an admission chest x-raywith an enlarged cardiac silhouette. she underwent atransthoracic echocardiogram that revealed an ef of 55% andtrivial pericardial effusion. she showed no signs of cardiactamponade. the patient was continued on low-dose beta-blockadeand her lisinopril was restarted during the admission. she didhave periods of hypertension during the admission , thought to bein the setting of volume overload. this did improve withup-titration of her beta-blocker and hemodialysis. she will bedischarged on lisinopril as well as toprol-xl. she was monitoredon telemetry throughout the admission.4. fluids , electrolytes , and nutrition: the patient tolerated arenal fluid restricted diet. she did have hyperkalemia of 6.3during the admission , which was treated appropriately. thepatient's hyperkalemia did improve with hemodialysis. thepatient did have difficult peripheral iv access during theadmission. however , she did refuse a central line.5. neurology: the patient has a seizure disorder and wascontinued on keppra.6. endocrine: the patient upon admission had elevation of herblood sugars to more than 500. the patient was placed on aninsulin drip , which was titrated off on hospital day #2.subsequently , on hospital day #2 , the patient did have periods ofhypoglycemia for which she received amps of d50. the patient'sinsulin regimen was adjusted during the admission. initially ,she was started on nph 25 once in the evening and nph 12 unitsonce every morning. in addition , regular insulin 6 units beforeeach meal was added. however , the patient again had periods ofhypoglycemia overnight on 1/27/06 and her insulin regimen waschanged to nph 12 units subcu b.i.d. with a novolog slidingscale. however , she continued to have periods of hypoglycemia. she will bedischarged on nph 8 units sc qam and qac and qhs coverage with a humalogsliding scale. she willbe discharged on this regimen and should followup at bois tham general hospital .7. prophylaxis: pneumoboots.8. hematology: the patient's hematocrit was at baseline andstable. the patient did have retroperitoneal lymphadenopathyseen on abdominal ct scan. this will need to be worked up as anoutpatient. this may represent inflammatory changes in thesetting of line sepsis and osteomyelitis however , malignancy willneed to be excluded.9. pulmonary: the patient had pulmonary nodules seen onabdominal ct scan and will need an outpatient follow-up chest ctto further evaluate these lesions.10. gi: the patient had a low-attenuation area seen within thesmall bowel on ct scan. in discussion with radiology , we feltthat further imaging as an outpatient could be considered in theform of either ct enterography or small-bowel follow-through.they did not feel that this area represented an area of acutepathology.11. wound care: the patient requires t.i.d. wet-to-dry dressingchanges for her left heel. she will need to follow up withvascular surgery in one week at either ow community hospitals , depending on the patient's preference. sheshould also have dry sterile dressings placed once daily to hermultiple open dermal ulcers that are chronic.disposition: full code. the patient will have homevna services.follow-up appointments: the patient will need to follow up witheither vascular surgery at tho medical center or with vascularsurgery , dr. sehr at 317-001-4753 at rohall health in one week. the patient will need to follow up withdr. cedrick packingham , 829-459-7212 at eewood alum lopela community hospitalnephrology department after she is discharged fromrehabilitation. the patient should also follow up with dr.??__?? at boxsan hospital in two to four weeks. upon dischargefrom rehab , the patient will undergo hemodialysis at oview cooau medical center , 430-609-4274 in ale e fre la ankrance onmondays , wednesdays , and fridays.discharge medications:tylenol 650 mg p.o. every four hours as needed for headache ,keppra 500 mg p.o. twice a day , phoslo 667 mg p.o. three times aday , toprol-xl 100 mg p.o. once a day , nephrocaps one tablet p.o.once a day , linezolid 600 mg p.o. q. 12h. for 18 more days ,insulin nph 8 units subcutaneously once every morning please takeone-half dose if not eating , oxycodone 5mg p.o. every four hours as needed for pain and hold if sedation ,lisinopril 5 mg p.o. once a day , plavix 75 mg p.o. once a day ,humalog sliding scale as follows: if glucose 0-70 , callphysician and drink orange juice; if fingerstick less than 200then give zero units of humalog; if fingerstick 201-250 then give2 units of humalog subcutaneously; if fingerstick 251-300 thengive 4 units of humalog subcutaneously; if fingerstick 301-350then give 6 units of humalog subcutaneously; if fingerstick351-400 then give 8 units of humalog subcutaneously; iffingerstick greater than 400 , take 10 units humalog and call physicianiffingerstick is greater than400.levaquin 250 mg po qday x 10 daysescription document: 3-9054961 emssten telcc: elvis bilellonephrology departmenterdosher hospitaldictated by: havermann , hungattending: suffield , sonnydictation id 9344456d: 2/18/06t: 2/18/06