record #108881242314196 | rgh | 69457618 | | 7356086 | 7/17/2007 12:00:00 am | congestive heart failure exacerbation | unsigned | dis | admission date: 2/3/2007 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 2/4/2007attending: lacinski , ollie warner mdchief complaint: status post fall.history of present illness: this is a 61-year-old gentleman withsevere pulmonary hypertension secondary to chronic pes , osa ,gout , bilateral hip replacements who presents with two falls inthe past two days. the day prior to admission , the patient fellwhile he was standing at the sink. he has poor recall of eventsbut thinks he landed on his leg. on the day of admission , hefell after getting out of the shower. he grabbed a chair , butslipped and landed on his buttocks , then he fell backwards andhit the back of his head. he denies any loss of consciousness.ems was called and brought him to the emergency department. hedid note a brief episode of chest pain after the fall. he says he is compliantwith his medication regimen and denies dietary indiscretion.review of systems: review of systems also notable for complaintsof more labored breathing , increased swelling , especially in theleft lower extremity as well as worsening orthopnea over the pastseveral days. he uses bipap at home at baseline.past medical history: significant for pulmonary hypertension ,last catheterization was in july 2005 , which showed noobstructive lesions , pasp of 104. he has osa and is on bipap , he hashistory of dvts , history of lower extremity ulcers and cellulitis ,hypertriglyceridemia , gout , hypertension , obesity. he is statuspost bilateral hip replacement as well as kneereplacement.allergies: he is allergic to versed.social history: he lives in chuhern boulevard , tra berke call , north dakota 02692 part of the year and owns a cardealership. no tobacco.physical examination on admission: he was afebrile , heart rate94 , blood pressure 126/60 , 92% on room air. head atraumatic , nonuchal rigidity. jvp was 10. lungs were clear with distantbreath sounds. cardiovascular exam: tachycardic with a loud s2.extremities showed swelling over the right wrist without warmth.lower extremities had brawny skin changes bilaterally with2+ edema in the legs to the mid shin. neuro exam: cranial nervesii-xii were grossly intact. he had 4/5 strength at the left hip flexor ,5/5 otherwise in the lower extremities.laboratory data on admission: included a hematocrit of 58.7within the patient's baseline of 53 to 58 , creatinine of 1 , inr4.4 , troponin 0.04. ekg showed normal sinus rhythm with leftatrial enlargement and right atrial enlargement. head ct wasnegative. plain films of the pelvis were negative for fracture.hardware was in place. right wrist showed no fracture , but didshow erosive changes suggestive of crystal deposition.chest x-ray showed no pulmonary edema. additional studiesincluded a repeat head ct , which was again negative.hospital course by problem: in summary , this is a 61-year-oldgentleman with a history of pulmonary history of hypertension andchronic pes on anticoagulation who presents after falls in thesetting of worsening lower extremity edema as well as orthopnea.cardiac: ischemia: he was ruled out for mi. his lastcatheterization was negative in july 2005. he was continuedon his beta-blocker and he was anticoagulated on coumadin.pump: the patient has severe pulmonary hypertension. thepvmc team followed this patient carefully. he was diuresedwith a daily goal of negative 500 to 1 l with iv lasix onceor twice a day as needed. his home dose of lasix is 160 mg p.o. he respondedvery well to two doses of 160 mg iv twice per day , but this was titrated downto 160 once a day given the goal of keeping the patient approximately 500 ml to1 l negative per day to minimize fluid and electrolyte shifts. his weight onadmission was 440 pounds. at discharge ,his weight was 429. his dry weight according to his primarycardiologist's notes suggest a dry weight of 419 pounds. he wasotherwise maintained on his home regimen of procardia ,hydrochlorothiazide , revatio , and toprol. he will need to followup with dr. santor , his cardiologist , on 5/11/07 .2. rhythm: the patient was in normal sinus rhythm. he did havean episode of missed beats , likely wenckebach on 6/3/07 as wellas some ectopy. these were thought secondary to fluid shifts.his electrolytes were thus repleted aggressively and he wasmonitored on telemetry.3. pulmonary: his baseline room air oxygen saturation was90-93%. he should use oxygen as treatment for his pulmonaryhypertension. he should also be provided with oxygen at homewhen he is discharged. chest x-ray was clear. in addition , heuses bipap at night and this should be continued while he is atrehabilitation and after he is discharged.4. heme: the patient has a history of dvt with pes. he is oncoumadin with an inr goal of 2.5. initially , he wassupertherapeutic on admission , but his regimen was restarted after holding 2doses. of note , on 11/6 , he did miss a dose of coumadin inadvertently , buthe should be continued on his home regimen , which is 11 mg onmonday , wednesday and friday and 12 mg the other days of theweek. in addition , because of the patient's asymmetric lowerextremity edema , lenis were obtained and were negative. thepatient's elevated hematocrit was likely secondary to pulmonaryhypertension and hypoxia and was within his baseline.5. fluids , electrolytes and nutrition: the patient wasmaintained on k and mag scales. he was also on a 2 l fluidrestriction. the patient refused a cardiac diet; however , he waswilling to accept a diet that was had no added salt.6. neurologic: the patient's neuro exam was completelynonfocal. he had a repeat head ct , which was also negative.this was on 5/12/07 .7. musculoskeletal: the patient was seen by physical therapy.he was treated for his hip pain initially with oxycodone. thiswas changed to dilaudid for better pain control. he said that hewould like to be changed back to his home dose of oxycodone whenhe is discharged , as he feels the dilaudid is fairly strong.x-rays were negative for any fracture.8. rheumatological: the patient has a history of gout. thisappeared to be exacerbated with diuresis. his gouty pain wasinitially in his right wrist. he also describes pain in hisright knee. he is on his home doses of allopurinol andcolchicine. indocin was added and at discharge , the patient hadreceived two days of indocin. we would like him to receive atotal of three days of indocin. tylenol and narcotics aspreviously described can be used to help with his gouty pain.9. gi: the patient takes nexium at home and he was continued onprilosec while an inpatient. he should be switched back tonexium when he is discharged from rehabilitation.physical examination at discharge: at discharge , the patient wasafebrile. his blood pressure was between 110-140 over 66-80 ,heart rate is between 76 and 87. his room air saturation was 91%on room air. he was breathing very comfortably and complainedonly of right wrist pain. his lungs were clear. jvp is lessthan 10. his cardiac exam was tachy with a regular rhythm and aloud s2.laboratory data on discharge: include a creatinine of 1 andinclude a hematocrit of 53.1 and inr of 2.3. potassium was 3.9and magnesium was 2.0.disposition: the patient is being discharged to rehab.followup: he should follow up with his cardiologist , dr.insco . he also has an appointment scheduled withendocrinology in the near future.discharge medications: coumadin 11 mg monday , wednesday andfriday and 12 mg nightly on tuesdays , thursdays , saturday andsunday , diovan 320 a day , multivitamin 1 tab daily , toprol-xl 50once a day , nifedipine extended release 30 once a day , revatio 20mg 3 times a day , hydrochlorothiazide 25 once a day , lasix 160 ivonce per day , allopurinol 200 once per day , colchicine 0.6 onceper day , colace , prilosec 20 once a day , dilaudid 2 mg q.4 h.p.o. p.r.n. pain , tylenol 500-1000 mg p.o. q.6 h. p.r.n. pain notto exceed 4 gm total from all sources in a 24-hour period , ambien10 mg p.o. nightly p.r.n. insomnia.escription document: 9-7953231 cssten teldictated by: toplk , jeremiahattending: oviedo , rick arnoldodictation id 0340302d: 5/18/07t: 5/18/07[report_end]