record date: 2098-06-11 cardiovascular medicine consult service consult notex. r. xi, md, phdvascular medicine fellow, #45811date of consultation: june 11, 2098id: 70 year old male from missourireason for consult: perioperative consultation prior to aorto-bifemoral bypass surgeryhistory of present illness:	this 70 year old gentleman was diagnosed with an occluded distal aorta in mid-2097 after an attempt at cardiac catheterization via the femoral artery.  	over the last several months, he has had exercise limiting lower extremity pain     he describes primarily left leg burning (thigh, calf) when he walks, coming on over about 150 yards.  if he pushes further, he will also get right leg burning in a similar distribution. 	he also has had a marked increase in cr over the past 8 monts (1.1 -> >4).  based on non-invasive imaging, this has been attributed to renal artery stenosis.  his ace-i (?ramipril) has  been held, without improvement.  a referral was recently made to rule out bilateral ras, and he had an invasive aortogram yesterday.  there was an 85% proximal right ra stenosis, and a 40% left ra stenosis, perhaps only partially explaining the elevated cr.  the angiogram also confirmed the occluded distal aorta (below the renal arteries, the sma is patent).  an aortobifem plus right ra revascularization is planned.	he has had reduced functional capacity for some time.  he gets claudication within 150 yards, but he also has been limited by exertional dyspnea.  he complains also of orthopnea (3 pillows), pnd, as well as bilateral le edema.  he also has noticed his weight continuing to creep up which he attributes to fluid retention.  he is avoiding salt, but not fluid restricting.  his lasix dose has not changed.  he has been angina free since his cabg surgery.  he has not had palpitations or af since the immediate post-op period.  a ros is otherwise unremarkable.past medical history:coronary artery diseasemi 2084developed limiting angina in late 2096, early 2097cabgx4 on november 05, 2097 (dr. ehlers)cabg x 4 (lima - lad/ sequential graft: svg1 connects aorta to d1 then om1/ svg2 - lvb2incidental anomalous circumflex off the right coronary arterypre-op ef 50-55% with infero-posterior hypokineses (?post-op)bicuspid aortic valve (not replaced with cabg according to notes)mild as, mild ai only on pre-cabg echo 2097hypertensiondyslipidemiadiabetes type iiperioperative hyperglycemia post cabgexsmokerquit 2097, >50 pack yearsperipheral arterial diseaseoccluded distal aorta (diagnosed after cardiac catheterization attempt in 2097)small infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm 3.6cmparoxysmal atrial fibrillation (x2 years at least)on coumadin for stroke prevention and amiodarone from maintenance of nsrcurrently in nsrbphchronic back painrenal insufficiency (creatinine 4.1) non-oliguric - ?causecr normal november 2097gradually increased over november from 1.1-1.6, ang then was ~4 when recently checkedattributed to renal artery stenosis based on non-invasive imaging (duplex, mri), though right inguinal hernia repairdenies vte, denies pulmonary problems.current medications:ecasa 81 mg dailyamiodarone 200 mg dailyatenolol 75 mg bidcolace 100 mg bidheparin 5000 units sc q8hinsulin sliding scale q4hsimvastatin 40 mg at hsezetimibe 10 mg dailyalbuterol/ipratropium 3/0.5 mg via neb q4hmedications at home:amiodarone 200mg dailyatenolol 100mg bidmetformin hcl 500mg dailyasa 81mg daily lasix 40mg daily,lipitor 40mg daily prnzetia 10mg daily prncoumadin 5mg qd	allergies:flecainide (arrhythmia).family history:noncontributory.social history:married, lives at home with his wife.  exsmoker.  minimal alcohol, no other substance abuse.review of systems:noncontributary.physical examination:mildly tachypnic rr 24.  bp 160/90 right arm.  hr 60 reg.  afebrile.head and neck examination unremarkable.  no bruits heard.jvp markedly elevated at the angle of the jaw.  the cp is delayed in upstroke, and mildly reduced in volume.  there is s1 s2 and a ii/vi sem that is high pitched and peaks in mid to late systole.  the apex is hard to feel, but slight diffuse and sustained.  the abdomen is obese, distended, nontender, and there is no organomegaly or masses.  the patent   s distal pulses are difficult to feel, and despite the bilateral teds there is bilateral lower extremity edema.investigations:ekg: normal sinus rhythmnote: aortogram report is not on lmrna 140		wbc 6.59k 4.3		hgb 8.0cl 104		plt 165co2 25		hct 25.8bun 80		inr 1.2 (coumadin held)cr 4.45		ptt 30.8egfr 13glu 74ca 8.3mg 2.4impression and plan:this gentleman is currently mild fluid overloaded (chf) and hypertensive; this should be improved prior to any proposed surgery.  the issues include:congestive heart failure     i suspect there is worsening fluid retention primarily due to his worsening renal function.  i would consider:increasing his diuretic (eg. lasix 80 mg iv bid) to improve diuresis and get him euvolemic.  hopefully this will work; if not, he should have ultrafiltration so that he is not in heart failure for his operation.  he will be at high risk of chf post-op, and likely will need an icu bedconsider starting hydralazine/nitroglycerin combination in lieu of ace-inhibitor for afterload reductionconsider a pre-op echo     we probably should check his ef and bicuspid aortic valve to exclude severe ai and severe asprevention of periperative mihe should continue his asa, atenolol, statins/zetia peri-operativelyno further testing for ischemia necessary unless is lv function on echo is markedly reduced (recent cabg, no angina)even with best medical care, for his proposed surgery and his comorbidities he carries a substantial risk for perioperative cardiac complications (roughly 5-10%)prevention of perioperative afcontinue his atenolol and amiodarone perioperativelyrestart coumadin post-op for stroke prevention long termendocarditis prophylaxishe will need perioperative antibiotics given his bicuspid aortic valvewe will follow with you     he may need a couple of days to treat his heart failure/fluid overload prior to surgery.xin xi, md, phdstaff notes: