record date: 2093-01-13edvisit^32612454^barr, nicky^01/13/93^ip, carriei saw this patient in conjunction with dr. xue.  i confirmthat i have interviewed and examined the patient, reviewed theresident's documentation on the patient's chart, and discussedthe evaluation, plan of care, and disposition with the patient.chief complaint:  a 57-year-old with back pain.history of present illness:  the patient is a young woman with acomplicated past medical history, presents with a chronic historyof low back pain, worse over the last week.  she states that 3years ago, she had a motor vehicle accident.  since that time,has had chronic low back pain.  she has been able to ambulate athome.  denies any fevers, rashes, history of urinaryincontinence, weakness, or numbness.  she went to educare-fargo earlierthis week and was prescribed percocet, comes here now because thepatient's family and the patient would like to change her care tolansing dover clinic.  denies any numbness or weakness. states that she is no longer taking her pills at home.  deniesany suicidal or homicidal ideation, has a flat affect.  deniesany depression.  her son, however, with whom she lives disagreesand is very concerned that she may be depressed.  he is also veryconcerned that she is not taking her medicines and that she isnot caring for herself well at home.past medical history:  remarkable for hypertension, diabetes, anda prior stroke.past surgical history:  she has also had knee surgery.social history, family history, and review of systems:  as perthe written note.  the patient was counseled regarding smokingcessation.medications:  hydrochlorothiazide and coumadin.allergies:  none.physical examination:  the patient is awake and alert in no acutedistress.  vital signs are within normal limits as documented. for full physical exam findings, please see the resident'swritten note.  specifically, heent, neck, respiratory, cardiac,rectal, and abdominal exam are within normal limits asdocumented.  skin exam is remarkable for erythematous changes inthe groin where the patient has significant skin fold due toobesity.  musculoskeletal exam is otherwise unremarkable.  rangeof motion is full.  strength and tone is normal.  the patientdoes have a positive straight leg raise on the left, reproducingher back pain.  neurologically, the patient has a flat affect butis oriented with intact cranial nerves and no focal neurologicdeficit in either motor or sensory distribution.  she does,however, walk with a limp, which is chronic for her.laboratory data:  white blood count is slightly elevated at 11.3. bun and creatinine is also significantly elevated at 26 and 1.1,respectively.  potassium is also quite low at 2.9.  urinalysis ispositive with 35-40 white blood cells, 15-20 red blood cells, and2+ bacteria.emergency department course:  my chief concern for this patientis her inability to care for self at home.  it is apparent thather son is interested in helping her and do so, but the patienton physical exam has some obvious lack of hygiene and i amconcerned that potentially the patient has either an underlyingneurologic or psychiatric issue that is preventing her fromthriving at home.  psychiatry initially was consulted.  theirimpression was that the patient may have neuro behavior problemthat needs further outpatient workup, and she was referred to aspecific providers within the next 2 weeks.  the patient wastreated with potassium chloride for her hypokalemia.  carecoordinator and social services were consulted.  the patient willhave a home safety evaluation and will be referred for primarycare services, was discharged with a cane for ambulation, andwill likely also receive vna services to help her with medicationcompliance and other adls.  not reviewed by attending physician diagnoses:1.  chronic low back pain.2.  hypokalemia.3.  urinary tract infection.4.  failure to thrive.disposition:  discharged.condition on discharge:  satisfactory.______________________________ip, carrie mdd: 01/13/93t: 01/13/93dictated by: ip, carrieescription document:1-1843613 bffocus