005239064 | cwhmc | 66742680 | | 213528 | 10/15/1996 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/9/1996 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/21/1996principal diagnosis: myocardial infarction.additional diagnoses: 1. insulin-dependent diabetes.2. hypertension.history of present illness: this is a 56 year old with ahistory of insulin-dependent diabetesmellitus and hypertension , who presents status post an anteriormyocardial infarction , assessed with tpa , with postmyocardialinfarction chest pain. patient has cardiac risk factors ofdiabetes x seven years and hypertension x seven months. he was inhis usual state of good health , with normal low exercise tolerance ,although under an enormous amount of stress at his job. when hewent to bed on june , 1996 , he had a very fitful sleep andawoke with 7/10 substernal chest pain radiating to his left arm ,without any associated symptoms , lasting 20 minutes. took tylenoland lisinopril with relief. he called his la hospital attending , was told to go to huy doba medical center , and there wasfound to have st elevations in the anterior region. he was treatedwith tpa , intravenous nitrates , and beta blocker , aspirin. hispain lasted a total of two hours. post tpa , he had resolution ofpain and electrocardiogram changes and was in the coronary careunit in park ouse hospital on intravenous heparin and nitroglycerin pain freesince tpa. his peak ck was 136 , with an mb of 5. hisechocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 55-60% , with mildseptal hypokinesis. he was transferred to the brooks medical center for post myocardial infarction care.past medical history: 1 ) hypertension x seven months. 2 )diabetes x seven years , on insulincurrently. 3 ) history of nephrolithiasis. 4 ) possible historyof thalassemia. 5 ) sleep apnea x seven years , on cpap 12 cm ofwater pressure.medications: lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q. day , insulin 25 units of nphand 5 units of regular q.a.m. , 10 units of nph q.day.allergies: sulfur.family history: both parents are alive and well. no coronaryartery disease or diabetes.social history: married , with one daughter. he is currentlyself-employed as an architect. no tobacco oralcohol use.physical examination: on admission , he was afebrile at 99.8.heart rate was 80. blood pressure was114/76. respiratory rate was 20 , with room air saturation of 96%.he was a well-developed , well-nourished male in no acute distress ,with examination significant for clear chest , heart with regularrate and rhythm , i-ii/vi systolic ejection murmur at the apex , flatjugular venous distention , no carotid bruits , femoral bruits noted ,and an abdomen that was benign. he did have notable left axillarylymphadenopathy , 1-2 cm , that was non-tender , and inguinaladenopathy bilaterally 2 x 1 cm for two nodes. extremityexamination - no cyanosis , clubbing , or edema , positive peripheralpulses. neurologic examination was non-focal.laboratory data: labs on admission were significant for a ck of46.hospital course: 1 ) cardiovascularly - the patient wascontinued on postmyocardial infarction careinitially on heparin and intravenous tng , with the plan to monitorvia telemetry x 72 hours. he was additionally continued onmedications of aspirin and lopressor as part of an anti-ischemicregimen. on the second day of his hospital course , he hadrecurrent chest discomfort , and it was decided to perform cardiaccatheterization. catheterization was performed on march , 1996and revealed a right dominant system with subtotal d2 occlusion , avery large vessel. a left ventriculogram showed mild anteriorhypokinesis. he had percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplastyof the d2 lesion down to a 20% residual , with good result. thepatient had no return of chest pain in-house subsequent to hispercutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and was managed on amedical regimen of atenolol , aspirin , and the addition of clonidineprior to discharge.2 ) anemia - with a severely decreased mcv , thought secondary tobeta-thalassemia. hematocrit remained in the low 30s ( 34 ) and wasstable in-house.3 ) lymphadenopathy - noted on admission. it was decided that thiswould be followed by his outpatient physician , lyle ship , m.d. ,in one to two weeks. the patient did not have any complaints orsymptoms of fever , chills , or night sweats.complications: none.disposition: the patient will be discharged to home.condition on discharge: stable.follow-up: in cardiology with dr. devoti on may , 1996.he will follow up with dr. jarrett mcmorran by calling onmonday to schedule an appointment.discharge medications: atenolol 100 mg b.i.d. , clonidine 0.1 mgb.i.d. , aspirin 325 mg q. day ,nitroglycerin sublingual tabs p.r.n. chest discomfort.dictated by: pat gilliard , m.d. sl26attending: cyrus h. fatone , m.d. sx17tz319/8147batch: 29629 index no. abnngk1i83 d: 11/5/96t: 7/30/96