979516073 | tlumc | 29022629 | | 300977 | 4/14/1997 12:00:00 am | congestibe heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 4/14/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 8/8/1997discharge diagnoses: 1. shortness of breath.2. hypertension.3. diabetes.4. history of mitral regurgitation.history of present illness: the patient is a 68 year old femalewith a history of long standinghypertension and diabetes who says that she had been doing welluntil approximately one week prior to admission when she was in tempefayscot , michigan 76498 for a wedding and during that time she was unable to followher normal strict low salt diet. during that time and since thetime back in ette na no the patient began having increasing shortnessof breath , dyspnea on exertion and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.the patient on the night prior to admission was unable to sleepsecondary to shortness of breath and sitting up most of theevening. she went to see her doctor , dr. sherbo in clinic thenext morning who found her to be in congestive heart failure andrecommended her to go to may .  while in theemergency room the patient was given procardia xl 20 mg p.o. x 1for a systolic blood pressure greater than 200 , aspirin , nitropasteand iv lasix. the patient had significant response to the iv lasixwith complete resolution of her shortness of breath and wasadmitted to the short stay unit for evaluation.past medical history: as mentioned above and included a stressechocardiogram in the past which showedmitral regurgitation , hypokinesis of the septum and av block onexertion with an ejection fraction of about 40%.medications on admission: cardura , vasotec and metoprolol.social history: denies any tobacco. lives with her husband.physical examination: temperature was 98.2 , respirations 14. herheart rate was 40 , blood pressure 148/70 ,saturation 95% on room air. she was a pleasant woman , spanishspeaking only and was able to speak in full sentences. neck wassupple with no carotid bruits. jugular venous pressure wasapproximately 8 cm. lungs clear to auscultation without anycrackles. heart was in regular rate and rhythm with a ii/visystolic murmur radiating out to the apex. abdomen was soft andnontender. extremities were without any edema.laboratory data: her electrocardiogram showed bradycardia at 40with a left bundle branch pattern and she had 2:1av block. her chest x-ray showed an enlarged heart with pleuraleffusions and cephalization which was often shown with congestiveheart failure. her laboratory data sma-7 was within normal limits.her white count was 3.8. her hematocrit was 37.9 , platelet count182. her cpk was within normal limits as were her coagulations.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the short stay unitfor further evaluation and was ruled out withserial cpk's. she was seen by the cardiology group who on furtherevaluation of her also felt that even with the resolution of hercongestive heart failure she was ready to go home with adjustmentin her blood pressure medications and felt that with herbradycardia she would not be able to tolerate her lopressor. itwas felt that the lopressor was extremely important in heranti-ischemic regimen and in discussing with her outpatientcardiologist , dr. konczak , it was felt that a pacemaker placementwould be in her best interest. in that way she could have goodcontrol of her heart rate and maximization of her blood pressuremedications and her increased tolerance of beta blockers. thepatient then underwent pacemaker placement without any difficultyand it was interrogated the day after placement without anyproblem. the patient was doing well with only minimal pain at theincision site.disposition: the patient was discharged in stable condition withno reportable disease and no adverse drug reactions.medications on discharge: keflex 250 mg p.o. q.i.d. for 5 days;norvasc 5 mg p.o. qd; hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. qd and vasotec20 mg p.o. b.i.d. follow-up care: the patient will follow-up withher cardiologist , dr. wes rounsville in one week and will probably haveher blood pressure medications further adjusted at that point.dictated by: jamal granieri , m.d. dt53attending: kelly shire , m.d. aq32  wx277/5596batch: 94689 index no. i1tur5272g d: 2/19/97t: 11/16/97