725174746 | nth | 87507495 | | 4438746 | 7/6/2003 12:00:00 am | cellulitis | signed | dis | admission date: 7/6/2003 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/2/2003attending: johnnie reed mdservice: gms vo rochena fortwardportdischarge diagnosis:1. osteomyelitis of the left foot.2. cellulitis of the right and left foot.discharge condition: stable.past medical history:1. copd.2. asthma.3. peripheral vascular disease status post fem pop in 2001 onleft , 1999 fem pop on right ( no known cad last echocardiogram7/10 with an ejection fraction of 73% ).4. diabetes mellitus ( last hemoglobin a1c prior to admission was7.7 in 9/18 ).5. hypertension.6. peripheral neuropathy.7. chronic renal insufficiency with baseline creatinine of 1.3 to1.4.8. multiple infections status post incision and drainage andamputation of the 5th left metatarsal in 10/15 forosteomyelitis ( tendency toward sepsis treated in the past withlevofloxacin and clindamycin given allergies with success , alsohistory of multiple cellulitis related to surgical incisionsbilaterally in the thighs ).9. history of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus.10. status post api.11. status post cholecystectomy.12. status post discectomy and laminectomy. her podiatrist ofrecord is dr. kocieda his telephone number is 092-829-8896.history of present illness: she is a 66-year-old female withsevere diabetes mellitus type ii , autoimmune hemolytic anemia ,peripheral vascular disease , copd , asthma , and history ofmultiple infections who presents with bilateral lower extremityarea edema , swelling , and pain. she specifically complained ofincreasing erythema , swelling , and pain of the right second toeand left foot x 1 day. she saw her podiatrist on the morning ofadmission , 7/6/2003 , and her right toe was drained at thattime , yielding pus. cultures were drawn and it was noted thatshe was have increasing erythema over the right ankle and theleft foot all the way to the shin. she had no fever but did havechills , no shortness of breath or cough , wheezing , no dizzinessor orthostatic symptoms. she had recently been admitted between8/7/2003 and 3/2/2003 for a copd flare , pneumonia , andanemia. she is known to hemolyze additionally in the setting ofinfection. at that time she was treated on steroids and at thetime of this admission , was on a prednisone taper. during thatprior admission , she had also being treated with levofloxacin ,was transfused 4 units of packed red blood cells , and was alsobeing treated with aramis. she had had an abdominal ct duringthat admission for left upper quadrant pain , which demonstratedno evidence of splenic infarct. in the ed on this admission , shewas afebrile , her vital signs were stable , she was started onlevofloxacin , and she had plain films of her right foot , whichwere consistent with evidence of chronic versus acuteosteomyelitis of the second toe.review of systems: on review of systems , she denied any chestpain , urinary symptoms , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and herfingerstick , she mentioned , had been running high , to the 250s onprednisone. she has a left plantar ulcer as well , which she hadplanned on having surgery soon for.allergies: to keflex , ultram , vancomycin , and linezolid. withlinezolid , she gets headaches and hypertension , with vancomycinhives , ultram produces systemic reaction of unclear nature , andto keflex her allergy is questionable because she has toleratedcephalosporins and penicillins in the past by report of theadmitting team.family history: notable for colon cancer and esophageal cancerin her father and mother respectively.social history: she is a former nurse at forestnew medical center she is married and has one daughter. she has a35-pack year history of smoking but she quit in 1994. no alcoholuse.physical examination: notable for an elevated blood pressure of150/70 , stable heart rate of 70 , afebrile , saturating 100% onroom air , breathing at 18. other notable aspects of her physicalexamination: chest: she had a left carotid bruit. her chestwas clear to auscultation bilaterally with the exception of milddiffuse inspiratory wheezes. cardiac: she had a regular rate ,distant heart sounds on her cardiac examination but no murmurs ,rubs , or gallops. abdomen: benign. back: no cva tenderness inher extremities. extremities: she had tense edema , left greaterthan right. she also had an ulcer on the plantar surface of theleft extremity , which was not fluctuant but did haveserosanguinous drainage and erythema that was circumferential tothe mid-shin. there was more tenderness over the lateralmalleolus. she also had some left calf tenderness with aquestionable palpable cord. in her right lower extremity , shehad erythema over the right second toe with a punctate lesiondraining serosanguinous fluid. discontinuous erythema over theinterior shin was also noted. she had diffuse onychomycosis andright intradigital ulceration between the 4th and 5th toe. therewas not right calf tenderness that was noted. neurological:neurological was grossly intact and there were no focal deficitsnoted.hospital course by system:1. infectious disease: her blood cultures were positive forgram-positive cocci , which was resistant to methicillin ,clindamycin , and levofloxacin. she had an mri of the lowerextremities bilaterally , which demonstrated no collections butwas notable for acute osteomyelitis of the left 2nd and 3rdmetatarsal as well as chronic osteitis of the calcaneous wounds.the right phalanges were not visualized well. she was started onlevaquin initially but this was discontinued when thesensitivities came back and instead she was started ondopthromycin. infectious disease was consulted at this time andthe antibiotics were changed to bactrim iv and then to p.o.bactrim secondary to an increase in her creatinine. a tte on2/21/2003 was negative for any vegetation. she underwentdebridement on 10/19/2003 in the afternoon. the material wassent for culture. she also complained of sternal discomfort ,dysphasia , and oral thrush on examination , and it was felt thatshe likely had oral candidiasis secondary to her steroid courseand so she was started on diflucan as well as on a nystatin swishand swallow. the cultures from her bone tissue were positivemethicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus as well asbeta-hemolytic streptococcus. infectious disease once again feltthat , given her allergies , that p.o. bactrim would be the bestway to treat these pathogens. on 3/19/2003 , the diflucan wasdiscontinued and she was continued on nystatin swish and swallowfor the oral candidiasis , which has since been improving. she isalso being continued on bactrim and her creatinine has stabilizedat 1.9 after peaking at 2.2. she has follow ups scheduled withthe infectious disease physicians on 1/27/2004 and will becontinuing her bactrim for a full 6-week course with weekly cbcchecks , which will be monitored by her primary care physician ,dr. sherman handel2. heme: the patient has a history of autoimmune hemolyticanemia. her hematologist of record is dr. bocanegra on herlast admission , she required transfusions and was thought to havehemolyzed in the setting of her pneumonia although her hemolysislabs at that time were negative. on this admission , her ldh andbilirubins were normal , her hematocrit steadily decreased from38.8 to 27 and then increased. she had an increase in her ldhbut no schistocytes were notable on smear. nevertheless , she wasthought to be hemolyzing and received a total of 6 units ofpacked red blood cells , given in doses of 2 units each over thecourse of this hospitalization. she was transfused successfullywithout any complications or transfusion reactions and herhematocrit at the time of discharge is 36.0.3. pulmonary: the patient's prednisone taper was discontinuedon day 4 because of oral candidiasis. she was continued on nebs ,however , for intermittent wheezing. she has had no acute copdexacerbations but has had increased shortness of breathperiodically , which has been improved with nebulizer treatments.chest x-ray on 1/7/2003 demonstrated a small bilateraleffusion. she was thought to be fluid overloaded at this time soher lasix was restarted for diuresis. also of note , the patienthad pain in the left posterior lower lung field , which waspleuritic in nature. she had lenis done , which were negative ,had a pe protocol ct on 1/7/2003 , which was negative. at thattime , she was diuresed and her pleuritic left lower lobe chestpain resolved with diuresis. she had a recurrence of this pain 2days prior to discharge after receiving 2 units of packed redblood cells , which presumably led to a volume overload situation.however , once again , after diuresis , she had complete resolutionof her symptoms. at this time , the ct scan was reviewed toensure that there was no fracture of the ribs as she did havetenderness in the left lower lung field area. however , the ribswere visualized well and there was no evidence of any fracture.4. cardiovascular: the patient was continued on toprol and herdiovan was held secondary to elevated potassium. she hadintermittent chest pain without ekg changes , possibly secondaryto esophageal spasm , which was relieved by nitroglycerine. herenzymes were negative for the first episode. her troponin was0.25 on random draw. this was likely a false positive and herenzymes thereafter were negative. she had a preoperative mibi on10/11/2003 , which demonstrated a moderate area of reversibleischemia in the territory of the right coronary artery. thedecision was made , however , to go ahead with the surgery for herfeet with spinal block , not with general anesthesia. her toprolwas increased to 75 mg q.d. given her mibi findings. her goalheart rate was set for the 60s and a low-dose statin was alsoadded to her regimen. it was felt that the cardiovascular planin terms of her coronary artery disease should be to increase herexercise tolerance during rehab to the point where she may beginto experience symptoms and then cap at that time can beconsidered. towards the end of the patient's hospitalization ,she required diuresis , particularly after receiving boluses ofvolume with her blood transfusions. it was noted that , when hervolume status went up , she had an increase in swelling of herlower extremities bilaterally as well as recurrences of herleft-sided back pain in the area of the left lower lung field.however , as noted before , these improved with diuresis.5. renal: her baseline creatinine is 1.3 to 1.4 , increased onthis admission likely due secondary to the dye load , which shereceived prior to scans. her creatinine peaked at 2.7 with theiv bactrim but began to trend down after the iv bactrim wasdiscontinued. other reasons for which her creatinine likelyincreased during this admission were secondary to herdopthromycin and also secondary to the iv bactrim.6. endocrine: the patient's blood sugars have been wellcontrolled after her prednisone was discontinued and she wasmaintained on a regimen of nph.7. ophthalmology: the ophthalmology team was consulted for anew left floater. the patient has a history of vitreoushemorrhages and questionable retinal detachment in the past. theoptic examination was notable for vitreous bleed. in response tothis , the head of the patient's bed was elevated and her symptomswere stable thereafter. if she has a recurrence of curtainssymptoms or spots or flashes , it is recommended thatophthalmology be reconsulted at that time.8. gi: the patient had complained of right upper quadrant painduring this admission. her liver function tests were elevatedwhen initially checked. it was recommended by infectious diseasesince these would be monitored with iv bactrim. they have beentrending down since she is status post cholecystectomy and wasinitially very tender in her right upper quadrant. her rightupper quadrant ultrasound on 10/19/2003 was negative except foran enlarged liver alkaline phosphatase that was thought to besecondary to osteomyelitis. her right upper quadrant painimproved subsequently during this hospital course with continueddiuresis and antibiotic treatment.discharge condition: the patient is being discharged at thistime in stable condition to the rehab facility. she is beingdischarged on the following medications.discharge medications:1. aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.2. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.3. folate1 mg p.o. b.i.d.4. heparin 5000 units p.o. b.i.d.5. nph insulin 50 units q.a.m. , 20 units q.p.m.6. nystatin suspension 10 ml p.o. swish and swallow q.i.d.7. regular insulin sliding scale: if blood sugar less than 200 ,give 0 units; if blood sugar 201-250 , give 4 units; if bloodsugar 251-300 , give 6 units; if blood sugar 301-350 , give 8units; if blood sugar 351-400 , give 10 units and call physician.8. multivitamin 1 tablet p.o. q.d.9. zocor 10 mg p.o. q.h.s.10. toprol xl 75 mg p.o. q.d.11. bactrim double strength 1 tablet p.o. t.i.d. for a full6-week course , which will end on 9/13/2003.12. flovent 200 mcg inhaled b.i.d.13. caltrate plus vitamin d 1 tablet p.o. q.d.14. nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d.15. duonebs 3/0.5 mg nebulized treatments q. 6 hours.16. saline eye drops 2 drops o.u. t.i.d.17. lasix 80 mg p.o. q.d.18. senna 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d.19. aramis 200 mcg subcutaneous q. 2 weeks. most recent dose1/7/2003 ; next dose due 4/15/2003.20. neurontin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.21. artificial tear drops 2 drops o.u. q.i.d.prn medications:1. tylenol 650 mg p.o. q. 6 hours p.r.n. headache.2. albuterol nebulized treatments 2.5 mg q. 2 hours p.r.n.shortness of breath and wheezing.3. dulcolax 5 mg p.o. q.d. p.r.n. constipation.4. lactulose 30 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. constipation.5. maalox plus 15 ml p.o. q. 6 hours p.r.n. indigestion.6. milk of magnesia 30 ml p.o. q.d. p.r.n. constipation.7. dulcolax suppository 10-20 mg p.r. b.i.d. p.r.n. constipation.discharge instructions:1. please follow up with primary care physician , dr. toby nadel , once a week for checking cbc , bun , and creatinine. as perthe infectious disease team , please fax these results theinfectious disease attending at 444-622-0960.2. patient has follow up appointment with the infectious diseaseclinic with the attending , dr. cletus almario , on 1/27/2004 at 3:30p.m. at ein mid-comp memorial hospital .3. patient requires follow up with orthopedic surgery with dr.tavares and she has instructions to call dr. raby 's office andset up this appointment.interim instructions for rehabilitation facility:1. please check patient's daily weight and adjust her lasix dosebased on changes in her weight and also clinical evidence ofvolume overload.2. please check patient's cbc , bun , and creatinine on a weeklybasis. she is receiving bactrim p.o.3. please monitor patient's feet bilaterally and changedressings as needed.escription document: 1-9119543 vssten teldictated by: flitton , federicoattending: thibert , vitodictation id 0024750d: 1/21/03t: 1/21/03