record #674333662587058 | ph | 59624946 | |  268606 | 10/2/1991 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | unsigned | dis | admission date: 0/15/1991 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 8/19/1991principle diagnosis: acute bronchitis.secondary diagnoses: status post aortic valve replacement.depression.history of present illness: the patient is a 60-year-old whitemale who was admitted with complaintsof cough , mild shortness of breath and persistent fevers. in 1981 ,the patient was admitted to mimo gnura medical center withsyncope secondary to aortic stenosis. a porcine avr was performedat that time. he had an unremarkable course until 2/20/90 , whenechocardiogram performed at reh showed an av gradient of 64 mm ofmercury , mild to moderate mr , lvh , and normal function. a blowingdiastolic murmur was noted on physical exam at that time. on0/4/91 , the patient underwent an ett that was nondiagnostic due tobaseline ekg abnormalities. however , he had no substernal chestpain after 12 minutes and 20 seconds. around the end of march1991 , the patient noted increasing fatigue , increased temperature ,and some upper respiratory symptoms including cough and sorethroat. he claims that his sore throat lasted for nearly a monththen went away for one week only to return again for nearly onemonth. he had been treated with amoxicillin without improvement.one week prior to admission , he had persistent symptoms with acough with poor sputum production but the sputum that was producedwas yellow-green in color. he was treated with erythromycin in asingle dose before hospitalization. also , one week prior toadmission , he noted some left chest pain without radiation that istypical of his chest pain syndrome which had been previouslydiagnosed. on the day of admission , the patient noted increasedpersistent elevation in his temperature and a chest x-ray showedquestionable left lingular infiltrate that led to his admission.past medical history: noteable for history of adult onsetdiabetes , previously treated with insulin but now diet controlled.status post porcine avr secondary to rheumatic heart disease.atypical chest pain syndrome. depression. medications: onadmission included erythromycin , motrin and imipramine. allergies:no known drug allergies. social history: remarkable forsignificant past smoking history , past alcohol use , job as apainter's rigger.physical examination: on admission revealed an obese white malewhose appearance was appropriate for his agein moderate distress. blood pressure was 160/90. heart rate 80.temperature 101.1. respiratory rate of 14. skin revealedblanching macular rash confined largely to the trunk withoutsplinter hemorrhages , janeway's nodes or osler's nodes. cardiacexam revealed normal sinus rhythm , iii/vi holosystolic murmur atthe left sternal border , ii/vi diastolic murmur at the left sternalborder and a ii/vi crescendo/decrescendo murmur at the apex withextension to the axilla. lungs revealed scattered rhonchi and fewrales especially in the left lung field. extremities were withoutcyanosis , clubbing or edema.laboratory data: on admission included a glucose of 172. whiteblood cell count 7.7. hematocrit 41.2. plateletcount 403 , 000. previous work-up at ah showed an esr of 24.urinalysis had 1+ protein , 1+ glucose , 1-3 white cells , 1-3 redcells , trace bacteria and 2-5 hyaline casts. ekg revealed normalsinus rhythm at 96 , intervals of 0.20/0.08/0.40 with axis of -30degrees. there was lvh with strain. chest x-ray showed aquestionable lingular infiltrate that was read as such by oneradiologist but this was not confirmed by a second radiologist.there was no sign of congestive heart failure on chest x-ray.hospital course: when the patient was admitted , he was initiallytreated as if his presenting symptoms were due toa left lingular pneumonia despite his lack of elevated white count.however , it was felt that endocarditis a small though realpossibility in this gentleman with avr. therefore , he wasoriginally treated with ampicillin , 2 grams iv q six hours;gentamicin , 100 mg iv q eight hours; and erythromycin , 1 gram iv qsix hours to cover atypical bacteria including legionella. priorto administering antibiotics , three blood cultures were obtained atdh in addition to the two previously obtained at tp .  sputumsample was also sent for gram stain and c&amp;s. all blood culturesremained negative throughout the hospitalization. sputum cultureshowed only normal flora. when the second radiologist read thechest x-ray as being inconsistent with lingular pneumonia , a moreaggressive search for possible endocarditis was undertaken. anechocardiogram was performed on 7/6 that showed an aortic valvewith 40 mm gradient , 2-3+ ai , 1+ mr , mild lvf and no regional wallmotion abnormalities. there was no evidence of vegetation on theecho. side by side comparison of this echocardiogram with theechocardiogram from 4/27 done at lgmc showed no significantinterval change. an infectious disease consult was sought and itwas felt by these consultants that endocarditis was an unlikelydiagnosis given the lack of change in echocardiogram and lack ofadditional signs of sbe. it was ultimately felt that the patient'sshortness of breath and elevated temperature were due to bronchitisand he was switched to po bactrim to continue a ten day course oftherapy. although the initial goal of his hospitalization was tokeep him hospitalized until cardiac catheterization and valvereplacement could be performed , the patient's personal situationmade it unfeasible to keep him in the hospital for a longer periodof time than absolutely necessary. furthermore , there werequestions about whether cardiac catheterization and avr should beperformed in someone being treated for presumed acute bronchitisand whether his very poor oral hygiene and dental work can becorrected prior to surgery. for these reasons , dr. sagredo incardiology was consulted as well as dr. sturman in vwh medicine andboth concurred that the patient could be discharged with closefollow-up by his primary care physician , dr. peltier . his conditionon discharge was stable.disposition: medications: on discharge included bactrim ds , oneb.i.d. times seven days; imipramine , 50 mg po q h.s.;colace , 100 mg t.i.d.; nystatin , 5 cc swish and spit q.i.d.;alupent , two puffs q six hours.cm454/7427nick schain , m.d. xm0 d: 4/22/91batch: 6987 report: x3105b98 t: 7/14/91dictated by: isaiah g. marold , m.d.[report_end]