record date: 2063-12-13name:     umphrey, tammy mrn:       0942207the patient is here as a walk-in.  her spouse is present.patient says she is status post a fall this past monday at home.  says that she seemsto have lost her balance while opening a door at home.  denies prodromalsymptoms including shortness of breath, dizziness, or palpitations.  there was noloss of consciousness.  patient was seen in the emergency room that day for traumato the head.  had a negative ct of her head and had an x-ray of her pelvis, as shecomplained of some hip pain.  both studies were negative.  patient was then senthome with roxicet.  patient was seen in the walk-in clinic at cpi yesterday, afternoticing a swollen tongue and some difficulty swallowing.  patient was immediatelytold to stop both her roxicet and monopril and was treated for angioedema withzantac and claritin.  today patient has no further throat tightness or tongueswelling.  she is, however, uncomfortable continuing the effexor for unclearreasons and wants to stop it.patient is also complaining of severe low back pain, which she says has persistedsince her fall on monday.  did not have an x-ray of the area.  says it is very painfulto sit.  roxicet was not helping.  she is off her ultram as well.physical exam:  wd/overweight female in nad.  vital signs as per lmr,wnl.  weight 213 pounds. lungs - clear bilateral breath sounds.  cor - rrr, s1, s2, without murmur or s3noted.  back - slightly bent gait.  tenderness over lower sacrum.  no asymmetry orobvious deformity.  x-ray of sacrum 12/13/63 - could not see fracture as per my reading.assessment and plan:  (1)  angioedema.  agree that most likely culprits are roxicet since it was started     only two days ago, and ace inhibitors which have been associated with     angioedema.  currently on lopressor and dyazide, patient's blood pressure     is wnl.  so will follow for now.(2)  low back pain.  reviewed the possibility of a coccygeal fracture for which     treatment would not be any different than pain management and a donut     pillow.  patient was given a prescription for the pillow.  she was told to look     out for signs of nerve compression and to go to the er if she experienced     any perianal numbness or incontinence.  will notify patient by phone if x-ray     shows a fracture. (3)  depression.  did not feel i was able to speak freely in front of the patient's     spouse.  had been put on the effexor by dr. zeman.  advised patient to let     her psychiatrist know that we are tapering her off of the effexor.  will take     25 mg q.o.d. for the next week.  (4)  pain control.  will switch from vicodin to vicodin es 1 q. 6 as needed.      knows to go to er if experiences any symptoms consistent with angioedema.return to clinic in approximately one month.susan ullom, m.d.su/utz/rankin 