record #99703406796482 | vlpnch | 38892684 | | 318907 | 0/11/1991 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | unsigned | dis | admission date: 4/5/1991 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 3/12/1991history of present illness: patient is a 35 year old black female ,gravida i , para l , last menstrualperiod 9/18/9l with a chief complaint of menorrhagia and a largefibroid uterus. patient had a history of chronic pelvic pain forthe past three years with lower back pain. she has had a historyof known fibroids and at the time of this surgery , was requestingdefinitive surgery. she has a history of a heart murmur , was seenby cardiology in 9/2 , and cleared with a normal echocardiogramand no need for sbe prophylaxis. her ekg was within normal limitsexcept for sinus tachycardia. the patient is status post acesarean section. other medical problems include that she hasrecently diagnosed diabetes and takes glyburide 5 mg p.o. q.d.allergies: she has no allergies.physical examination: her heart rate was 96 , her respiratory ratewas l2 , blood pressure ll0/70 , andtemperature was 98.9. she was an obese black female in no acutedistress. heent: negative. breasts: clear without masses.lungs: clear. heart: regular rate and rhythm with a i/visystolic ejection murmur. abdomen: soft and non-tender with aprevious midline vertical incision secondary to her previouscesarean section. pelvic: she had a fourteen to sixteen week sizefibroid uterus and her adnexa were unable to be evaluated.laboratory examination: patient had a pre-operative hematocrit of35.3. her height was five foot two andshe was l80 pounds.hospital course: patient was taken to the operating room on3/8/9l with a pre-operative diagnosis offibroid uterus , pelvic pain , and menorrhagia. post-operativediagnosis was same. in addition , there were extensive pelvicadhesions. procedure was exploratory laparotomy , lysis ofadhesions , total abdominal hysterectomy , and leftsalpingo-oophorectomy. surgeon was dr. vito hazouri and assistantwas dr. gaylord rollf . anesthesia was general per endotrachealtube. estimated blood loss was 500 cc. there were nocomplications. operative findings included the uterus to beenlarged at approximately twelve to fourteen weeks in size andslightly boggy. both ovaries and tubes were densely adherent toher pelvic sidewalls and the cul-de-sac. she had adhesions of thecul-de-sac and rectosigmoid to the posterior portion of the uterus.she also had omental adhesions to the anterior abdominal wall inthe upper abdomen. patient's pathology report revealed , of theuterus , leiomyomata with multiple serosal adhesions withproliferative endometrium and adenomyosis. the left tube revealedendometriosis and left ovary hemorrhagic corpus luteum. her cervixwas noted to have mucinous mucus cyst. patient had a stablepost-operative course. on post-operative day one , her foley wasdiscontinued. she was started on sips of clears and had a lowgrade temperature to l00.6. her hematocrit was 30.4 with a whitecount of ll.l and a platelet count of 336. her urinalysis wasclear. on post-operative day three , she was advanced to a regulardiet. she had a low grade temperature to l00 and was continued onnebulizers. it was felt her low grade temperature was secondary toatelectasis. her urine culture was negative. she had one episodeof vomiting on post-operative day four which was felt to besecondary to a mild ileus. she had a kub obtained which wascontained with a post-operative ileus with no dilated loops and fewair fluid levels. on post-operative day five , she was feelingbetter. on post-operative day six , she was placed on clears andwas then advanced to a regular diet on post-operative day six. sheis discharged home on post-operative day seven in stable conditiontolerating a regular diet after having had a bowel movement.disposition: she will follow-up with dr. melvin highers at vmc . ln711/2242daren r. branigan , iii , m.d nw64 d: 4/11/91batch: 2364 report: w7697s5 t: 4/18/91dictated by: royal r. dennin , m.d. la44[report_end]