record date: 2072-03-01edvisit^91156456^heath, hannah^03/01/72^yeager, christopheri saw this patient with dr. rosalia west.  i confirm that i haveinterviewed and examined the patient, reviewed the resident'sdocumentation on the patient's chart, and discussed theevaluation, plan of care, and disposition with the patient. please see the resident's note for further details.chief complaint:  altered mental status.history of present illness:  the patient is a 76-year-old femalewith history of prior strokes, hypertension, diabetes, andparoxysmal atrial fibrillation, who presents with altered mentalstatus.  as per report, the patient has not been acting likeherself and not communicating or speaking like herself.  thepatient was in her usual state of health until a few days agowhere she started to develop a cough as well as some chills.  thepatient's family members state that the patient has not been outof bed and has been unwilling to eat.  the patient's familymembers state that the patient is not acting like her usual self. the patient's family members deny noting the patient complainingof any nausea, vomiting, chest pain or shortness of breath.  thepatient was actually taken to clinic yesterday because thepatient was starting to speak less.  the patient was seen clinicand was thought to be depressed.  the patient has a known historyof a facial droop.  the patient was incontinent of urine today.physical examination:  the patient's vital signs reveal thefollowing:  temperature was 102.8, heart rate 110-160 beats perminute, respiratory rate 20, blood pressure is 144/110, andoxygen saturation was 95% on room air.  the patient's oxygensaturation was interpreted as borderline low.  general:  no acutedistress, multiple family members at bedside.  heent:  thepatient's head was normocephalic and atraumatic, no scalphematomas.  pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light. mucous membranes were somewhat dry, right facial droop noted, nodrooling.  neck:  supple, no jvd, no carotid bruits appreciated. there was no meningismus.  respiratory:  poor cooperation withexam.  fair aeration, no focal rhonchi, rales, or wheezes, noincreased work of breathing or use of accessory muscles wasnoted.  cardiovascular:  irregularly irregular, tachycardic,unable to appreciate any gross murmurs, rubs, or gallops.  gi: abdomen:  soft, no rebound or guarding, prior well-healed priorg-tube scar noted.  rectal exam deferred.  gu exam:  the patientwas incontinent of urine.  skin:  warm and dry.  no rash orlesions were noted.  back:  the patient did not have anycostovertebral angle tenderness.  there is no midline thoracic,lumbar, or sacral spine tenderness to palpation.  extremities: warm and well perfused, no clubbing, cyanosis or asymmetricallower extremity edema was noted.  there were no palpable cords. neuro:  the patient was alert, the patient was a verbal.  thepatient grossly moved all 4 extremities with fair strength.  thepatient responded to touch appropriately.  the patient was unableto cooperate with cranial nerve examination.initial impression and plan:  the patient is a 76-year-old femalewith history of prior stroke, hypertension, diabetes, andparoxysmal atrial fibrillation, who presents with altered mentalstatus and urinary incontinence.  differential diagnosis at thistime includes infectious versus a metabolic abnormality.  thepatient has no new deficits on neuro exam as per the family andas per review of prior notes.  repeat stroke is certainly on thedifferential, however, i have a lower suspicion then for ametabolic or infectious etiology.  the patient will need to havea large workup including laboratory studies, urine studies, foleycatheter, portable chest x-ray, and repeat noncontrast head ctscan.emergency department course:  upon arrival to the emergencydepartment, the patient had history and physical exam performed. the patient was noted to be in atrial fibrillation with rapidventricular response.  the patient's 12-lead ekg revealed a rateof 166 beats per minute, atrial fibrillation with rapidventricular response, stable t-wave inversions noted over thelateral leads as well as over the precordial leads.  no definitest segment abnormalities were noted.  the patient then had aportable chest x-ray and as per report, the patient's portablechest x-ray did not reveal any acute cardiopulmonary process orfindings.  the patient did have a noncontrast head ct scan andthe patient's noncontrast head ct scan was notable for someright-sided edema.  the patient will have this followed up withan mri of the brain.  the patient's laboratory studies werenotable for sodium of 131 and potassium of 5.2.  the patient'slactic acid was 1.7.  the patient's white blood cell count wasnot elevated.  the patient was not anemic.  the patient'surinalysis was consistent with infection.  the patient's firstset of cardiac markers were negative.  the patient's coagulationstudies were normal.  the patient was treated with ceftriaxonefor her urinary tract infection.  the patient could possibly haveurosepsis given her fever and tachycardia.  urine sepsis is myleading diagnosis at this time.  the patient's right-sided edemais certainly concerning, however, i do not feel that the patientwill need to be admitted to neurology at this time.  the patientwill be admitted to medicine for presumed urosepsis.  the patientwill need to be admitted to a monitor bed.  the patient's bloodpressure is normal, and as such, i do not feel that the patientneeds an intensive care unit bed.  in terms the patient's atrialfibrillation with rapid ventricular response, the patient wasgiven metoprolol iv.  the patient was not given any oralmedications secondary to her possible stroke.  the patient wasgiven rectal tylenol as well as rectal kayexalate for herelevated potassium at 5.2.primary diagnoses:1.  urosepsis.2.  atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response.3.  hyponatremia.4.  hyperkalemia.disposition:  the patient was admitted to the medicine and to amonitor bed.condition at the time of disposition:  stable, but guarded.______________________________yeager, christopher m.d.d: 03/01/72t: 03/01/72dictated by: yeager, christopherescription document:4-2135677 iffocus  not reviewed by attending physician 