341370090 | wuhamc | 71072924 | | 0721326 | 7/2/2004 12:00:00 am | acute myocardial infarction | signed | dis | admission date: 10/28/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 8/4/2004attending: lavern custa md , phdadmission diagnosis: coronary artery disease status postinferior myocardial infarction.principal discharge diagnosis: inferior myocardial infarction.other diagnoses: rheumatoid arthritis , myocardial infarction ,chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , coronary artery diseasestatus post carotid endarterectomy , status post cerebrovascularaccident , gastroesophageal reflux disease , diabetes mellitus ,cerebral artery aneurysm , and depression.the patient is a 77-year-old female with coronary artery diseasewho presented to an outside hospital with chest pain that shethought was gerd but became concerned when it started radiatingdown her left arm. at the outside hospital , she was noted to befebrile with temperature 39.8 and noted on ekg to have stelevations in the inferior leads. the patient was med-flightedto hasey health care for an emergent cath. the patient had 70%lad lesion , 50% proximal rca , and 90% mid rca lesion that wasstented to 0% , and a 60% pda lesion , and lvedp of 33 on initialcath. started on integrilin post cath and transferred to ccu.the patient did well in the ccu and was transferred out on thenext day. previous to admission , the patient resided in aassisted living facility and was fairly active but has hadincreasing dyspnea on exertion , decreasing exercise toleranceover the past six months.physical examination on admission: temperature was 98.8 , heartrate was in the 70s , bp was 120s/60s , respirations was 22 ,saturation was 90% on 2 liters nasal cannula. generally , she isan obese female in mild distress. some cough. her heent examshowed a clear oropharynx. no erythema or injection. skin hadno rashes or other lesions. neck was supple with full range ofmotion. jvp was approximately 2 with 2+ carotid pulses withoutbruits. no thyromegaly or nodules. chest was noted to havediffuse wheezing with bilateral bibasilar crackles. questionableright-sided consolidation , pmi nondisplaced with a regular rateand rhythm with s4 , s1 with physiologically split s2. nosignificant murmurs or rubs. abdomen was nondistended andnontender. positive bowel sounds. no hepatosplenomegaly. herextremities showed no cyanosis , clubbing , or edema. 2+ femoral ,dp , and pt pulses. neurologically , she was alert and orientedwith normal mental status and nonfocal exam. her chest x-rayshowed evidence of pulmonary edema with focal consolidation ofright upper lobe with chest consistent with pneumonia. her ekgon admission , was normal sinus rhythm in the 60s with normal axisand inferior q waves with t-wave inversions inferiorly andlaterally.impression: this is a 77-year-old female status post imi withconcurrent copd exacerbation secondary to probable right upperlobe pneumonia.hospiatl course by systems:1. cardiovascular: the patient did very well status postrevascularization. she did have some persistent pain while inthe intensive care unit and this went away on transfer to thefloor. she was medically optimized and continued on aspirin andplavix , added a beta blocker and ace inhibitor to the patient's1b pump. the patient had compensated heart function ondischarge , euvolemic , but she did require intermittent lasix.she was discharged on lasix to treat heart failure. rhythm-wise ,the patient remained in normal sinus rhythm throughout the courseof hospitalization.2. pulmonary: the patient was treated for copd exacerbationwith a rapid prednisone taper , and her home nebulizers , and a10-day course of levofloxacin. incidentally , the patient alsoadmitted to having a tb exposure. we placed a tb and that wasnonreactive and had induced sputums that were negative x 3.3. renal: the patient had well preserved renal functionnormalized at discharge.4. fen: the patient was tolerating oral diet well and wasindicated on her instructions that she should have low-calorie ,low-fat , low-cholesterol diet particularly given her diabetes andshe should watch her sugar and was maintained on her own.5. psychiatry: the patient has a history of depression andnoted to be depressed throughout the course of hospitalizationwith some suicidal ideations toward the end of herhospitalization. for that reason , we requested that psychiatrycome and evaluate her. they did so deeming her safe to return toher facility and adjusting her antidepressants. the patient wasdischarged in stable condition.procedures included percutaneous coronary intervention withstenting to her right coronary artery x 2. please see fullreport for details.her discharge medications include aspirin 325 mg , atenolol 25 mgp.o. q.d. , prozac 20 mg p.o. q.d. , lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d. ,atrovent inhaler two to four puffs q.i.d. p.r.n. , lisinopril 2.5mg p.o. q.d. , ativan 0.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. insomnia oranxiety , prednisone she was completing a taper with 40 mg x 2days , 20 mg x 2 days , 10 mg x 2 days , and then off , trazodone 50mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. sleep , zocor 40 mg p.o. q.h.s. , flovent 110mcg b.i.d. , plavix 75 mg p.o. q.d. , serevent one puff inhaledb.i.d. , nexium 20 mg p.o. q.d. , and elmiron 100 mg p.o. t.i.d.the patient had followup set up with her primary care doctor ,cardiology as well as her psychiatrist.escription document: 0-0665229 issten teldictated by: ekin , randalattending: mangiapane , carsondictation id 4809356d: 10/23/04t: 5/28/04