record date: 2083-09-22chief complaint	mrs chapman  is here to follow up on back pain, htn, s/p tah and dmhistory of present illness	for the past 21 days has had  back pain since she was involved in a low speed mva. was a restarined passanger in the back seat of a car, that wasn't moving, and their car was hit from behind. she developed lbp and has had it since. the next day she had the tah.the pain is constant, localized in the lower, with radiation to left upper or left lower extremities. no numbness, tingling or weakness on upper or lower extremities. the pain gets worse with movement and changing positions. unable to sleep at night with the pain. denies any urinary incontinence apart of her usual, when sneezing or coughing or bowel incontinence, no fever, chills, or other joint aches.hasn't had  similar symptoms before.hasn been taking tylenol prn with no relifshe has a tah and bso on 9/2/83 for a pelvic mass, found to be serous cystadenoma. feeling well, occasional wound discomfort,  she was not aware of her uterus being removed.review of systems	c/p:denies chest pain, shortness of breath, pnd, orthopneageneral:denies fever, chills, headache, has lost 20 pounds since 6/83gi :denies nausea, vomiting, diarrheagu: denies dysuria, polyurianeuro: denies headachesheent: no cold sx but stuffy nose and sneezingpsych: was very depressed before her surgery, was very scaredall other systems negativeproblems	  asthma	      hypertension	      insomnia	      schizophrenia	      diabetes mellitus	      pelvic mass	      allergies	  nkda	 nonemedications	  metamucil (psyllium (metamucil) sugar free)	 1tbsp po bidprempro	 0.625/2.5 po qdlotensin	 40mg po bidnorvasc	 5mg po qdvanceril	 2puffs inh bidventolin	 2puff inh qidmultivitamins prenatal	 1  po qdpaxil	 40mg po qhshaloperidol	 4mg po qdbenadryl	 50mg po qhscalcium carbonate	 1000mg po qdfioricet	 1tab po q4hvital signs	  blood pressure:	 120/80   pulse:	 84   respiratory rate:	 14   weight:	 212   poundsphysical exam	alert, in mild distress, able to sit and lye down with mild discomfortheent :  oral mucosa moist, no lesions, throat: clear, no plaques, exudates or erythema. rhinoscopy: erythematous mucosa, no polypsneck : supple, no masses or nodes, no jvd.lungs: clear anteriorly and posteriroly to auscultation, no rhonchi, crackles or wheezes, normal percussion.heart: regular,. s1s2 normal, no s3 or murmursabdomen: midline surgical scar clean, soft, no tenderness, no masses no organomegalies bs(+), no reboundext: no edema, normal skinback exam: no spinal deformities, no paraspinal muscle spasm, no sacroiliac tenderness, normal skin exam. bilateral straight leg raising test negative.neurological: strenght 5/5 bilateral symmetrical, sensory intact, dtr 2++ bilateral symmetrical. no pathological reflexesassessment	1. back painno evidence of anatomical or neurological deficitmost likely musculoskeletal originnaprosyn 500 mg po bid for 7 days and the prn #40 no refillssoma compound 1 tb tid #30 no refillsheat pads tid for 20 minutes each timephysical activity as toleratedwritten instructions on how to avoid back pain and exercises to performed three times per week given and start the exercises in a month timeuse a pillow under the knees to decreased the back pain 2. s/p tah bsoexplained to her the procedure and she understood.will start premarin 0.625 mg po qd #30 6 refills and d/c premprocontinue mvi and calcium3. allergic rhinitisrhinocort nasal spray 2 puffs bid # 1 and 6 refills4. hypertensionwell controlled, continue same meds5. diabetes mellitusprescr for accucheck glucometer, strips and lancetsplan	follow up with me in 2 months for flu shot or before prn