record #643929821742088 | mmtcho | 17223156 | | 6635586 | 2/25/2006 12:00:00 am | urinary tract infection | signed | dis | admission date: 5/2/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 7/16/2006attending: leverson , weston m.d.principal diagnosis: left mca cerebral vascular accident.list of problems/diagnoses: urosepsis , candiduria.brief history of present illness: this is an 83-year-old manwith a history of diabetes , peripheral vascular disease ,bilateral above the knee amputations , dementia who presented on7/13/06 to the dacoveneers hospital emergency department withmental status changes including increased confusion and decreasedresponsiveness over the past two to three days. he had somedegree of baseline dementia but there was a definite change inhis mental changes according to his son. his son also reportsthat the patient had decreased urine output over the past twodays with decreased p.o. intake as well. although , the patientdid not complain of nausea , vomiting , fevers , diarrhea , chestpain , or shortness of breath. he arrived in the emergencydepartment obtunded , responsive to pain only.past medical history: peripheral vascular disease , status postbilateral above the knee amputations , diabetes mellitus , insulindependent , dementia , hyperlipidemia , hypertension , anemia orchronic disease , traumatic brain injury in march 2002 , whichincluded a subdural hematoma and a subarachnoid hemorrhage , alsocongestive heart failure with the ejection fraction of 28%measured in july of 2002 , history of c. diff colitis andpolymyalgia rheumatica and hypertension.allergies: no known drug allergies.home medications: include lantus , lisinopril , ritalin.social history: denied tobacco and alcohol per the patient'sson. the patient lives with his son.family history: noncontributory.review of systems: unable to be performed because the patientwas obtunded.brief admission physical exam: on admission , he had atemperature of 96.5 , heart rate is 60 , blood pressure of 138/86 ,respiratory rate of 14 , he is sating 97% on room air. he wasobtunded and responded to the pain by localizing with his lefthand. his skin was dry and cold to the touch. he had dry mucousmembranes. he had no jugular venous distention. his heart hadregular rate and rhythm with normal s1 and s2 heart sounds. hedid have a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur. his lungs were clear toauscultation bilaterally. his abdomen was soft and nondistended ,positive bowel sounds. rectal exam was deferred. bilateralabove the knee amputations with no signs of infection from thepast surgical site. he had 2+ radial pulses. his neuro exam , hewas obtunded. his pupils were equal and reactive to light. hehad no thorough reflex. on initial examination , he had increasedtone in his upper left extremity and he was moving his left upperextremity but not his right.laboratory data: on admission , his chem-7 was pertinent for aglucose of 242 , a creatinine of 1.5 , and a bun of 40. his whitecount was 11.1 with a crit of 31.6 and platelets of 314 , 000. hispt was 13.8 and inr of 1.1 and a ptt of 29.3. his ekg showedsinus bradycardia with t-wave inversions in i , avl , v3 through v6with no st changes. compared to a prior ekg in august of 2004 ,there were no acute changes. his initial set of cardiac enzymeswas negative. a foley catheter was placed with frank pusexpressed into the foley catheter bag. a ua was sent from thatspecimen , which showed greater than 200 white blood cells , 3+leuk esterase , negative nitrites , and 2+ bacteria.hospital course:id: the patient was admitted initially with the diagnosis ofmental status changes and urosepsis given the grossly positiveurine in the foley and a positive ua. urine culture was sent.he was started on levofloxacin for a total course of five days.he was fluid hydrated with normal saline bolus of 500 ml in arate of 100 ml per hour after that. he was also given a dose ofvancomycin and ceftriaxone in the emergency department , whichwere discontinued on admission to the floor. the urine cultureeventually did not grow out any bacteria , but did grow outgreater than 100 , 000 candida. he was started on fluconazole ivand that was discontinued after one day and he was switchedinstead to an amphotericin bladder washout with 50 mg going intoa 1 l sterile water bag , which was infused into the bladder at 42ml an hour continuously over the course of 24 hours. furtherinto his hospital course , he again spiked the temperature on5/1/06 to 101.6 degrees with transient hypertension with thesystolics into the 80s. at that point , he was started onvancomycin , flagyl , and gentamicin. another urine culture , bloodculture and chest x-ray were done at that time. blood cultureseventually did not grow out anything as well as the urine , whichwas also negative. his blood pressure improved with the fluidbolus and over the next few days , he remained afebrile with astable blood pressure. on the night before discharge , thepatient's iv infiltrated and we were unable to replace the iv toadminister a one-time dose of gentamicin of 350 mg iv , which isthe extended interval dosing. at that time , we had conversationwith the patient's healthcare proxy who is carlo serpe whoagreed that no further attempts at iv should be made and weshould continue to not have a foley catheter in place. ondischarge , the patient will be sent home without antibiotics andwithout a foley catheter and the family is aware and agrees withthis plan.neuro: after the initial course of antibiotics in the emergencydepartment , we expected the patient's mental status to be vastlyimproved. on exam the next morning , he continued to be obtundedand did not seem to be moving his right arm. we therefore got ahead ct , which showed a large new left mca territorial infarct.we started aspirin and we consulted neurology. neurology atfirst recommended that we do an mri , mra and a lumbar puncture tofurther investigate the mental status changes , but these studieswere deferred given the lack of interventions available to usgiven the patient's decreased functional status. we did howeverobtained a transthoracic echocardiogram , which showed an ejectionfraction of 30% and no thrombus , which could have been the nadirsfor the stroke. we also got carotid ultrasounds , which did show75% stenosis in the right ica and 1% to 25% stenosis on the left ,which would not explain the stroke on the left side. we alsochecked a lipid panel and started a low dose of simvastatin toprevent further stroke evaluation and formation. neurology hadsigned off and he has a neurology follow-up appointment with dr.mcleroy as an outpatient if needed.cardiovascular: he has a presumed history of coronary arterydisease given his low ejection fraction and regional wall motionabnormalities seen on the echocardiogram. we started a low doseof atenolol with hold parameters as well as lisinopril and asmentioned before , we continued aspirin.endocrine: we continued the patient's lantus dose and titratedit as necessary. on discharge , he is going home with lantus 6units daily with the novolog scale for additional coverage.fen: at first , we kept the patient n.p.o. given his obtundedstate. we got a speech and swallow consult , which evaluated hisswallowing mechanisms and agreed that he could tolerate p.o. andokayed him for nectar-thick pureed diet. he did not take a lotof p.o. during his hospital course and was only able to be fed bymembers of his family with any real efficacy. the topic ofplacing a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube was broachedwith the family , but given that the patient is taking some p.o. ,they wanted to defer peg tube placement given his low functionalcapacity and high rate of mortality over the next year.end of life: the patient came in with a code that is of dnr/dni.given the patient's new large left mca stroke , which has left himfunctionally debilitated , several end of life care discussionswere held with the patient's healthcare proxy randolph ruddell andas well as with the patient's son who seemed to be his primarycare giver. they have all come to the agreement that the patientwould not wants to have aggressive interventions done , whichinclude cpr , intubation , pressors , and at this point as well theyfeel that interventions such as iv fluids or foley catheters arenot in order as well. the patient is being discharged home wherethe family has arranged a certain level of home healthcare withtheir primary physician. the patient already has a homehealthcare aid who works 40 hours a week during the day and hisson takes care of him the rest of the time. they are working onarrangements to further supplement his care with the homehealthcare aid , which will be able to cover the nights andprovide him 24 hours to provision as which he needs. severaldiscussions were held about whether the patient should be placedin a skilled nursing facility because of his extraordinaryhealthcare needs and that he needs to be fed , he needs to havehis diaper changed , and his hygiene looked after , but given thatthe patient's wishes were to go home , the family feltthat they would try to take him home and feed him themselves andsee how he does and if that did not workout well , they would optfor a more structured living facility for the patient. thepatient's family is aware of the large amount of working effortthat this patient will require in the future and they have agreedto take on this task. we have offered our social services tohelp with establishing further home healthcare needs , but thefamily has actually done this independently with the primary carephysician.complications: there were no complications for this hospitalstay.physical exam at discharge: on discharge , the patient wasafebrile with the temperature of 98.1 , his heart rate is 68 ,blood pressure was 130/60 , respirations were 20 , and he is sating94% to 99% on room air. on exam , he was awake and lookingaround. he was nonverbal. he was moving his left upperextremity but not his right using it to scratch his face andforehead. his heart was regular rate and rhythm with normal s1and s2 , no murmurs appreciated. his lungs were clear toauscultation bilaterally. his abdomen was nondistended and softand nontender.discharge medications: include tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. ,aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily , atenolol 25 mg p.o. daily , dulcolax 10mg per rectum daily p.r.n. for constipation , colace 100 mg p.o.b.i.d. , milk of magnesia 30 ml p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. forconstipation , ritalin 5 mg p.o. q.a.m. , simvastatin 20 mg p.o.q.h.s. , lantus 6 units subcu daily.disposition: the patient's disposition is to home. he has homehealthcare arranged through his family and through his primarycare physician. he has some blood cultures , which have been nogrowth to date , but final cultures are pending and if they aregrossly abnormal , these results will be telephoned to him by themicrobiology lab.physician follow-up appointments: he has an appointment with dr.spriggle of neurology on 10/28/06 at 8 a.m. an appointment wasattempted with his primary care physician who is toney k stumer whose phone number is 754-293-1346. unfortunately ,his office was closed and an appointment was not able to beschedule before discharge. the appointment will be scheduled;the date and time of the scheduled appointment will be telephonedto the healthcare proxy or to the patient's son.escription document: 0-0447696 cssten telcc: marshall ervine mdathens a pa streetnard ci , new york 75318cc: nick torralba m.d.vona ave. , co , kentucky 50599dictated by: gilberti , lowellattending: russo , danieldictation id 0966210d: 6/23/06t: 6/23/06[report_end]