234794070prgh163111271799443/11/1998 12:00:00 amright hip fracturesigneddisadmission date :03/11/1998report status :signeddischarge date :03/16/1998principal diagnosis :right hip fracture .history of present illness :the patient is an 86 year old female who presented to the emergency department after having a fall .she was outside the tarcet health systems when she tripped on a curb on 03/11/98 .the fall was witnessed by her son , who presented to the emergency room with her .she had complaints of right hip pain and was unable to ambulate .she denied any loss of consciousness , syncope , or hitting her head .she was taken to the tarcet health systems emergency department , where x-rays were obtained that demonstrated a right femoral neck fracture that was displaced .the patient was transferred to verg medical center for further treatment .past medical history :1. dementia .2. previous hypertension .3. squamous cell skin lesion on forehead , status post recent excision .4. total abdominal hysterectomy .medications :1. paxil 10 mg q d .2. aerosept 25 mg q d .allergies :no known drug allergies .social history :the patient denies any tobacco use .she states that she occasionally has an alcoholic beverage .review of systems :the patient denied any coronary artery disease , pulmonary disease , peptic ulcer disease , or diabetes .she had no symptoms in her history of chest pain or shortness of breath .physical examination :vital signs :temperature 98.9 , heart rate 66 , blood pressure 136/70 .general :the patient was awake , alert , and oriented x 3 .heent :normal , with no signs of trauma .mucous membranes were moist .oropharynx was clear .cardiac :regular rate and rhythm .chest :clear to auscultation bilaterally .abdomen :soft , non-tender .extremities :the right lower extremity was shortened and externally rotated .pulses in the distal right lower extremity were 2+ .capillary refill was brisk in the right toes .sensory was intact to light tough throughout the right lower extremity .the patient had pain , therefore no range of motion testing of the right hip was performed , as we knew it was fractured .the left lower extremity was without deformities and had 2+ pulses .skin :intact throughout the right lower extremity .diagnostic studies :radiograph of the pelvis and right hip demonstrated a displaced femoral neck fracture with varus angulation .chest x-ray demonstrated no acute processes .hospital course :the patient was admitted to the orthopedic surgery service and plans were made to take the patient to the operating room on the day of admission for a right hip hemarthroplasty .consent was obtained from the patient 's son .medically , the patient was determined to be stable for the operating room after the emergency department spoke with the covering physician for her primary care physician , dr. roglom .the patient was taken to the operating room on 03/11/98 and a right hip hemarthroplasty was performed .the patient remained hemodynamically stable intraoperatively and postoperatively .she remained neurovascularly stable .the patient tolerated the procedure well .she had some slight confusion afterwards in the recovery room , which resolved .hematocrit remained stable postoperatively .the patient was placed on perioperative kefzol therapy and coumadin therapy for dvt prophylaxis .the patient had a sitter for the first night to ensure her safety , as she had some slight confusion .at her baseline , it was noted that she had some mild dementia .she was alert on postoperative day one and did very well .the wound was healing well throughout her hospital course .a physical therapy consult was obtained for weightbearing as tolerated instructions for right lower extremity .the patient did well but it was determined the patient would need an inpatient rehabilitation stay , as she lived alone prior to coming to the hospital .plans were made for discharge to rehab .the patient stayed in to hospital until 03/16/98 waiting for a bed to be available at rehab .she continued to do well and was discharged to rehab on 03/16/98 in good condition .instructions :the patient is to have daily wound checks and to have blood draws twice a week for coumadin therapy .the patient should follow up with dr. kayskote in approximately six weeks ; she should call to schedule an appointment .the patient will have inpatient rehab therapy as directed by the physical therapy referral .discharge medications :1. coumadin 2 mg p.o. q d. and then as directed per m.d.2. paxil 10 mg p.o. q d .3. aerosept 25 mg p.o. q d .4. percocet one to two tabs p.o. q 4 h. p.r.n. pain .dictated by :ajo cuchkote , m.d. lf99attending :yacandta e. kayskote , m.d. lk19 wy590/2717batch :91887index no. mytgs56ashd :03/16/98t :03/16/98