330153886 | gxmh | 04975520 | | 200573 | 6/11/2000 12:00:00 am | pneumonia | signed | dis | admission date: 9/18/2000 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/13/2000principal diagnosis: legionella pneumonia , bilateral pleuraleffusions.history of the present illness: the patient is a 57-year-oldfemale with a distant history ofovarian cancer , rheumatoid arthritis with systemic lupuserythematosus features , and history of ttp , status postsplenectomy , who was admitted with fever , shortness of breath andpleuritic chest pain. she was in her usual state of health untiloctober of this year , when she began to experience dyspnea onexertion , shortness of breath one week after her husband died.initially she thought it was anxiety secondary to her husband'sdeath , but this shortness of breath began to increase and occurredon rest. she also reports that she has had a recent history oforthopnea and says that for the past few months she has hadbilateral lower extremity edema with gradual onset. she also hashad a dry , non productive cough for the past month and three daysago began to have fevers up to 102 , chills , nausea , dry heaves ,headache and diarrhea. the shortness of breath has increased inintensity and yesterday she began to experience sharp pleuriticright chest pain. she denied productive cough , neck stiffness ,photophobia , sick contacts , chest pain , palpitations , or recenttravel. of note , the patient had been on plaquenil previously butshe self discontinued this three months ago because she has beenfeeling well. she has had no recurrence of her rheumatoidarthritis symptoms , which for her include arthritis in her hands.past medical history: past medical history is significant fordiabetes type 2 , hypertension , ttp , historyof splenectomy , history of haemophilus influenzae and pneumococcalsepsis , rheumatoid arthritis with systemic lupus erythematosusfeatures , history of osteomyelitis in the right ankle , history ofovarian cancer in 1989 , status post chemotherapy , total abdominalhysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.allergies: she has no known drug allergies.medications: her medications include diltiazem 240 mg a day ,lisinopril 40 mg a day , naprosyn 500 mg b.i.d. , nphinsulin 24 units subcutaneously q.a.m. , entex-la.social history: she lives with her son. her husband recentlydied in october of this year with esophagealcancer. she has no alcohol or tobacco use. she is an elementaryschool teacher.family history: family history is significant for coronary arterydisease as well as breast carcinoma.physical examination: on physical examination , the patient wasafebrile with a temperature of 98 , pulse inthe 100s , blood pressure 182/99. the patient's oxygen saturationwas 92% on 5 liters. she was alert and oriented , in mildrespiratory distress. the skin was without rash. heent: notsignificant. neck: the neck was supple with no lymphadenopathy orthyromegaly. cardiovascular: tachycardic , regular rhythm , withoutmurmurs , gallops or rubs. she had no jugular venous distention.lungs: the lungs revealed markedly decreased breath sounds at thebases and faint crackles at the bases on the right. abdomen:abdominal examination was completely benign. no hepatomegaly ormasses. she did have a scar from the splenectomy. extremities:the extremities showed 1+ edema bilaterally. there were no cords.negative homans' sign. there was no clubbing or cyanosis.neurological: the neurological examination was intact.laboratory data: significant laboratory studies included asodium of 137 , white blood cell count of 19.5with 2 bands and 86 polys as well as howell-jolly bodies.hematocrit was 38.6 , platelets 495 , 000. ck was 50 , troponin was 0.d-dimer was greater than 1 , 000. chest x-ray revealed largebilateral pleural effusions , left greater than right. she had a ctscan which was a limited study that showed no evidence of apulmonary embolism. it showed a questionable infiltrate in theright lung versus compressive atelectasis.hospital course: in summary , this is a 57-year-old female with adistant history of ovarian cancer and ttp , whowas admitted with likely community acquired pneumonia and bilateralmoderate to large pleural effusions. initially the patient wasgiven cefuroxime and levofloxacin in the emergency department for apresumed community acquired pneumonia. she also was given lasixfor diuresis , given there was a question of whether or not she washaving any heart failure. given her elevated d-dimer , she had aspiral ct scan of the chest which did not reveal any evidence ofpulmonary embolus and also had lower extremity dopplers which werenegative. however , there was a continuous doppler wave form on thestudy which raised the suspicion of a more proximal venouscompression. therefore , she underwent abdominal ct scan , which didnot show any evidence of venous obstruction as well as lymphaticobstruction.1 ) infectious disease: the patient was admitted and treated forwhat was thought to initially be just a community acquiredpneumonia with large effusions , likely peripneumonic in nature.she initially was started on cefuroxime and azithromycin by thegeneral medicine team. she was pancultured as well as hadlegionella urine antigen sent. subsequently her legionella urineantigen became positive and repeat test again revealed that thiswas in fact positive. at that time , levofloxacin was added givenrecommendations from the infectious disease service. she wascontinued on azithromycin; however , cefuroxime was discontinued asthere was no evidence of other etiology of her pneumonia. sheunderwent thoracentesis late the evening of her admission , whichrevealed a transudate. cytology was sent on this and was negativeas well as all cultures were negative from this. she underwentmultiple bilateral therapeutic pleuracentesis , given that theeffusions were quite large. ultrasound revealed multipleloculations on the right side and she had to undergo right sidedultrasound guided thoracentesis to remove fluid. in addition , thepatient was aggressively diuresed with lasix to help with theeffusions.the patient continued to have a high oxygen requirement throughoutthe hospitalization despite aggressive thoracentesis. however , asshe was diuresed aggressively , her oxygen requirement was down frominitially 5 to 6 liters per nasal cannula. prior to discharge , shewas off of o2 except that she had desaturations to 86% withambulation. therefore , she was discharged home with p.r.n. oxygen.she remained afebrile throughout the rest of the hospitalizationand her pulmonary status continued to improve prior to discharge.other complications during the hospitalization included an elevatedplatelet count up to 800. this was thought likely to be acutephase reactant secondary to infection and fever and this will befollowed as an outpatient. in addition to this , she had anelevated ca-125 level. this was discussed with her gyn oncologistand he felt that this was likely from the effusions , but againshould be followed as an outpatient to make sure that this resolvesas the effusions continue to resolve. abdominal ct scan , which wasdone to rule out more proximal venous compression did not revealany recurrence of ovarian cancer.the patient was discharged to home on october , 2000 , with servicesas well as p.r.n. oxygen. she was in stable condition. she had noproblems with her diabetes , hypertension , rheumatoid arthritisthroughout the rest of her hospitalization.discharge medications: her discharge medications include lasix80 mg b.i.d. , insulin sliding scale ,lisinopril 40 mg a day , levofloxacin 500 mg times 14 days ,cardizem-cd 240 mg p.o. q.d.follow-up: she is to follow-up with dr. michalek in one week andshe is to have her platelets checked as well as aca-125 as her legionella pneumonia resolves.dictated by: andrea madrueno , m.d. gy00attending: cordell d. geter , m.d. jz62li603/7469batch: 23350 index no. f9ix1z6sxt d: 7/6t: 11/1cc: 1. harland e. goyne , m.d. qx03