record date: 2095-05-15edvisit^75659490^root, percy^05/15/95^justus, ellisi saw this patient with dr. queen pickett.  i confirm that i haveinterviewed and examined the patient, reviewed the resident'sdocumentation on the patient's chart, and discussed theevaluation, plan of care, and disposition with the patient. please see the resident's note for further details.chief complaint:  syncopal event.history of present illness:  the patient is a 70-year-old malewith a history of atrial fibrillation for which he is oncoumadin, congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease,hypertension, and prior transient ischemic attack, who had asyncopal episode yesterday.  as per report, the patient feltlightheaded and passed out while he was shaving.  the patientpassed out while using in the bathroom.  the patient was actuallycaught by son before he actually hit the floor.  the patient didnot strike his head.  there was no loss of consciousness.  thepatient then awoke once he was supine.  the patient later feltnormal.  the patient states that he did have some antecedentdiaphoresis and shortness of breath and possible chestpalpitations.  the patient states that he felt like something wasjumping inside his body.  the patient does complain of somefatigue and malaise.  the patient denies having any lowerextremity swelling or pain.  the patient denies having any chestpain at this time.  the patient did have an adenosine mibi inmarch 2095, which showed some areas of reversible ischemia overthe distribution of the left circumflex artery.  the patient'stransthoracic echocardiogram from march 2095 did show some lvh aswell as for an ejection fraction of 50% with some globalhypokinesis.  the patient was seen by his primary care physician,specifically, dr. ross.  the patient was instructed to come tothe emergency department for further evaluation and admission.physical examination:  the patient's vital signs revealed thefollowing:  the patient's temperature was 99 degrees fahrenheit. heart rate 63 beats per minute, respiratory rate 18 breaths perminute, blood pressure is 151/18, and oxygen saturation wasinterpreted as normal.  general:  mild-to-moderate discomfortnoted, daughter at bedside, pleasant.  heent:  the patient's headis normocephalic and atraumatic, no scalp hematomas.  mucousmembranes were somewhat dry.  posterior oropharynx was clear. neck:  supple, no jvd.  respiratory:  clear to auscultationbilaterally.  no focal rhonchi, rales, or wheezes. cardiovascular:  irregularly irregular, distant heart sounds, nodefinite murmurs, rubs, or gallops were appreciated.  gi: abdomen:  soft, no rebound or guarding, no focal tenderness topalpation, no palpable pulsatile mass appreciated.  rectal examdeferred.  gu exam deferred.  skin:  warm and dry, no rash orlesions were noted.  back:  no costovertebral angle tenderness. there was no presacral edema.  extremities:  warm and wellperfused, trace lower extremity edema noted, no asymmetricallower extremity edema.  there were no palpable cords.  neuro: the patient was alert and oriented x3, motor, strength, andsensation were all grossly intact.  the patient's cranial nervesare grossly intact.  i did not ambulate the patient.initial impression and plan:  the patient is a 70-year-old malewith a history of coronary artery disease, congestive heartfailure, prior transient ischemic attack, and atrial fibrillationfor which he is on coumadin, who presents with a syncopalepisode.  the patient was sent in to the emergency department forfurther evaluation and workup for this syncopal event. differential diagnosis at this time includes a syncopal eventsecondary to dehydration versus arrhythmia.  i do not feel thatthe patient had a cerebrovascular accident.  the patient willneed to have screening laboratory studies and formal imaging.emergency department course:  upon arrival to the emergencydepartment, the patient had history and physical exam performed. the patient then had a 12-lead ekg performed.  the patient's12-lead ekg was consistent with atrial fibrillation with somet-wave flattening noted.  there were no definite acute ischemicchanges appreciated.  the patient had laboratory studies sent. the patient's laboratory studies were notable for a creatinine of1.69.  the patient does have a history of renal insufficiency. the patient's cardiac markers were negative.  the patient's bnpwas elevated at 1380.  the patient's complete blood count wasnormal.  the patient's coagulation studies were normal patient'scoagulation studies were notable for an inr of 2.2.  the patientthen had a noncontrast head ct scan performed.  the patient'snoncontrast head ct scan results are still pending at this time. the patient also had a 2-view chest x-ray ordered.  the patient'schest x-ray results are also still pending at this time.  dr.ross kindly and promptly saw the patient here in the emergencydepartment.  he was in agreement with admitting the patient tointernal medicine at this time.  the patient will be admittedto a monitor bed.  the patient will need to rule out for possibleacute coronary syndrome or cardiac ischemia.  the patient willneed further monitoring for possible arrhythmia.  the patient wasin agreement with this plan for admission at this time.primary diagnoses:1.  syncopal event, possibly secondary to an arrhythmia.2.  atrial fibrillation.3.  renal insufficiency.disposition:  the patient was admitted to internal medicineand to a monitor bed.condition at the time of disposition:  stable and satisfactory.______________________________justus, ellis m.d.d: 05/15/95t: 05/15/95dictated by: justus, ellisescription document:4-4238782 iffocus  not reviewed by attending physician