736743101puomc242705019324/73834180744/17/1995 12:00:00 amnecrotizing pancreatitis .unsigneddisreport status :unsignedadmission date :4/17/95discharge date :07/16/95date of birth :7/2/1928 .principal diagnosis :necrotizing pancreatitis .associated diagnosis :1. wegener 's granulomatosis .2. coronary artery disease , status post anterior myocardial infarction in 1993 .3. left ventricular aneurysm .4. dementia .5. gallstone pancreatitis .6. fungal cystitis .7. intra-abdominal infection .8. total parenteral nutrition dependent .principal procedure :exploratory laparotomy , left colectomy , end-transverse colostomy , drainage of pancreatic necrosis .date of operation :4/28/95 .history and reason for admission :mr. mass was a 56 year old white male who was transferred from vassdiysey medical center for rule out pancreatic pseudocyst .mr. mass had a past medical history which included wegener 's granulomatosis , history of an anterior myocardial infarction , and gallstone pancreatitis .he was admitted to vassdiysey medical center with severe recurrent pancreatitis , nausea , vomiting , and abdominal pain .his amylase on admission there was 1,961 .the patient had two recent admissions for pancreatitis in january 1994 , and august 1994 .on his current admission , the patient was admitted to free medical center .his amylase decreased to 51 , and the increased back to 151 on hospital day #10 .at that time , he spiked a temperature to 103 .he also became increasingly confused .a computerized tomography scan done on 4/16/95 showed a large " pseudocyst " .he was transferred to ph university of medical center for further surgical evaluation .'past medical history :1. as above .2. coronary artery disease , status post anterior myocardial infarction , in 1993 .ejection fraction was felt to be 35% in 1993 .recent echocardiogram suggests ejection fraction of 15% .3. wegener 's granulomatosis , with associated chronic renal insufficiency .4. mild dementia .medications :vitamin k , 10 mg. , im , q-week .2. pepcid , 20 mg. , intravenously , q12h.3. digoxin , 0.125 mg. , intravenously , qd .4. imipenem , 500 mg. , intravenously , q6h.5. nitropaste , one-half inch to chest wall , q6h.6. vasotec .7. alterajel .8. lasix , 20 mg. , po , qd .9. haldol .10. demerol , prn .allergies :ativan .physical examination :in general , confused white man , in mild distress .vital signs :temperature was 102 , heart rate was 110 , respiratory rate was 22 , blood pressure was 113/63 .his head , eyes , ears , nose , throat was benign .his neck was supple .lungs :rales at the right base , bilateral decreased breath sounds at the bases .cor :regular rate and rhythm , s1 and s2 , no extra heart sounds , abdomen distended with an epigastric mass noted , mildly tender to palpation , no guarding .bowel sounds were present .the neurological examination was nonfocal .laboratory data :white count was 14.4 , hematocrit was 36.2 , platelet count was 217 , sodium was 135 , potassium was 3.3 , chloride was 99 , bicarbonate was 25 , bun was 40 , creatinine was 1.9 , glucose was 124 , urinalysis was negative , pt was 12.2 , ptt was 24.5 , calcium was 7.8 , phosphorus was 3.7 , albumin was 2.3 , total bilirubin was 1.3 , alkaline phosphatase was 202 , sgpt was 32 , sgot was 64 , ldh was 998 , amylase was 150 .ekg revealed sinus tachycardia at 107 beats per minute .evidence of old left anterior septal infarct .chest x-ray :large left ventricle , bilateral atelectasis or effusion .abdominal computerized tomography scan :pancreatitis , fluid collection in the lesser sac .a perisplenic effusion was noted which appeared to communicate with the lesser sac collection .gallbladder was visualized with stones .in summary , the patient was considered to have severe necrotizing pancreatitis , with severe cardiac disease .hospital course :the patient was admitted , placed on intravenous fluids .he was continued on his imipenem , intravenously .the patient was started on total parenteral nutrition .on 4/17/95 , gi interventional radiology performed drainage of the peripancreatic fluid collection .approximately one liter of brownish fluid was obtained and sent for culture .the drainage catheter was left in a pseudocyst .the patient was evaluated by cardiology .a persantine thallium study demonstrated a large infarct , involving the posteroseptal , anteroseptal areas .left ventricular aneurysm was also noted ; however , no ischemia was seen .an echocardiogram was done .the echocardiogram showed terrible left ventricular function , with left ventricular aneurysm .the right ventricle appeared to be acceptable .the percutaneous drainage catheter continued to have high output .the fluid was sent for amylase , which came back 53,230 .on 4/28/95 , the patient had new onset of abdominal pain .his white count had bumped from 8.3 on admission to 18.5 , on 4/27 .a computerized tomography scan of the abdomen was performed .approximately 100 cc.'s of thick brownish material was aspirated through the indwelling catheter .the computerized tomography scan showed the catheter tip in good position .because of the patient 's deteriorating state , the patient was brought to the operating room on 4/28/95 .an exploratory laparotomy was performed .the splenic flexure had a purulent exudative process along the antimesenteric surface .thus , the splenic flexure and a portion of the descending colon were resected .the patient underwent a left colectomy with end transverse colostomy , and oversewing of the descending colon .drainage of the pancreatic necrosis was also done .the patient tolerated the procedure fairly well , and was transferred to the intensive care unit .in the intensive care unit , the patient had a prolonged course .the patient was then extubated on postoperative day #2 , but remained pressor-dependent .he remained on imipenem , and vancomycin was also started .thereafter , the patient had a long and complicated postoperative course .he was eventually transferred to the floor , where he remained meta-stable .he had repeated episodes of hypotension to 80-90 systolic/40-50 diastolic .these resolved without incident .he also had repeated temperature spikes .after repeated work ups , it was felt that these were probably due to remaining infection in the peripancreatic area .his drainage tube from the peripancreatic area was gradually advanced , and eventually discontinued .mr. mass was placed on multiple courses of antibiotics .most recently , he was on a 28 day course of vancomycin , ofloxacin , and flagyl , for blood cultures that were positive for gram positive cocci and enteric and non-enteric gram negative rods .this 28 day course was completed on 07/15/95 .the patient was also treated initially with amphotericin-b and then with fluconazole for a computerized tomography guided aspirate of a small fluid collection around his pancreas , which grew candida albicans .the patient also had several episodes of fungal cystitis with torulopsis glabrata , going from his urine .he was treated with amphotericin-b bladder washes for this .mr. mass was initially anticoagulated for his left ventricular aneurysm .he remained stable from a cardiac fashion .he did have problems with po intake .he had repeated bouts of small-volume emesis that may have been secondary to reflux .he was treated with a variety of anti-emetics , most recently granisetron , with only mild success .he remained total parenteral nutrition-dependent throughout his hospital course .by the end of june , it became clear that mr. mass would require aggressive surgical intervention in order to eradicate his intra-abdominal bursts of intermittent sepsis ; however , long discussions with the patient and his wife , who was his health-care proxy , revealed that they felt that no further aggressive intervention be attempted .the patient had been made a do not resuscitate do not intubate patient earlier in his hospital stay .multiple discussions were held between dr. mass , the rest of the surgical team , and the patient 's wife , with this same result .after discussion with the patient 's primary doctor , dr. douet at vassdiysey medical center , it was felt that the patient and his family would be best served if the patient were transferred to vassdiysey medical center .of note , given the patient 's do not resuscitate status and the risk for bleeding , the patient 's coumadin was stopped without incident several weeks before transfer .doctors discharge instructions :medications :1. heparin , 5,000 units , sc. , b.i.d.2. lisinopril , 20 mg. , po , qd .3. isordil , 10 mg. , po , t.i.d.4. nitropaste , 1 inch to chest wall , q8h.5. carafate , one gram , po or per nasogastric tube , q.i.d. , cardizem , 30 mg. , po , q6h , digoxin , 0.25 mg. , po or intravenously , qd , fluconazole , 200 mg. , qd , for five more days , after transfer , for a total of a 14 day course , total parenteral nutrition to meet the patient 's nutritional needs .the patient has an ostomy appliance around the former site of his pancreatic fistula drain .this area has continued to drain and it is felt that it could be best managed by an ostomy appliance and stoma care .the patient is also treated with shots of morphine for intermittent pain .i drain , m.d.dictating for :liasun l. mass , m.d.tr :aet / bmotdd :07/16/95td :07/15/95cc :stat discharge summary .copies to dr. liasun mass , dr. tomedankell new of cardiology , and dr. scosthuang of vassdiysey medical center .please have a copy in the chart ; the patient will be leaving on the morning of 07/16/95 .