record #873016034120994 | lmc | 80350241 | | 284615 | 3/15/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 4/24/1994 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/16/1994discharge diagnoses: 1. diabetic ketoacidosis2. diabetes mellitus3. endometriosis4. hypercholesterolemia5. status post repair of the ostium primumatrial septal defect in 19756. mitral regurgitation7. hematemesis secondary to a mallory weisstear in may 1994.chief complaint: ms. andreessen is a 31 year-old black femalewith diabetes mellitus ( insulinrequiring ) who is admitted with emesis and diabetic ketoacidosis.history of present illness: diabetes mellitus was diagnosed in1984 after the patient presented with ahistory of polyuria , polydipsia , fatigue. she was treated withoral hypoglycemics initially. in 1985 she was hospitalized for aquestionable episode of diabetic ketoacidosis with recurrentpolydipsia , polyuria , nausea and vomiting and she was changed toinsulin treatment.subsequently , the patient had intermittent compliance , withoccasional dietary indiscretions with greater than 2500 caloriesintake and decreased exercise. her dose of insulin in 1991 washumulin n 40 units subcutaneous qam and 20 units qpm with regularinsulin 5 units qam and 5 units qpm added. in may of 1993 herglycosylated hemoglobin ( hemoglobin a1c ) was 20.2 and her fingerstick blood glucose was 265. on november , 1993 her finger stickblood glucose ranged from 96 to 189. in march 1994 her insulindosing was 40 units subcutaneous qam and regular 5 units qam , 5units of regular q noon and 5 units qpm.in early march of 1994 her finger stick blood glucoses rangedbetween 160 and 240. she indicated she was depressed about herdiabetes. on march she awoke at 5 am and had 10 episodes ofemesis progressing from clear to greenish to black. she noted thatshe had felt well the day previous with no dietary indiscretionsand had taken her insulin as usual on the days prior to thisepisode. she denied any abdominal pain , there was no history offever or chills and no diarrhea. there was also no immediatecomplaint of hematemesis. the patient went to ertmu oaktan wallro medical center urgent care unable to hold down her food intake andblood sugar was noted to be 333. she received 5 units ofsubcutaneous insulin and her blood sugar went to 247. she alsoreceived intravenous fluids , 25 mg of compazine and 0.5 mg ofintravenous ativan. the patient had serum ketones present and herserum bicarb was 16 , initially noted at uflehill brent hospital medical center she was transferred to unral imbrohealt healthemergency department for further management. the patient's recentcreatinine clearance in the urine was 70 , her urine total proteinwas 177 mg for 24 hours. past medical history: notablefor adult onset diabetes mellitus requiring insulin , endometriosis ,status post exploratory laparotomy in 1990. she was neverpregnant , para 0 , gravida 0. she had a history of dysmenorrhea.she had a history of yeast vaginitis , history ofhypercholesterolemia and a history of atrial septal defect ,repaired in 1975. medications on admission: at the time ofadmission , the patient was on insulin lente 40 units subcutaneousqam , regular 5 units subcutaneous qam and 5 units subcutaneous qnoon , 5 units subcutaneous qpm; demulon and lupron for 9 monthswhich was discontinued several days prior to admission. allergies:to penicillin and sulfa drugs , the results of which were not clear.also , aspirin caused epistaxis in the past. family and socialhistory: she lives by herself. she works as a lawyer and professorof law. she noted that her family history is positive for adultonset diabetes mellitus in her mother and her grandmother as wellas a family history of hypertension. review of systems: revealedmetromenorrhagia and increased menstrual flow recently. she alsonoted she had decreased her exercise recently.physical examination: on physical examination her vital signs wereas follows: temperature 99.7 , heart rate of127 , blood pressure and respiratory rate normal. she was apleasant , young , black female frequently vomiting. heent: notablefor normal examination. neck supple. there was brisk carotidupstrokes , no thyromegaly was noted. lungs were clear toauscultation and percussion. heart was tachycardic. s1 and s2with a holosystolic murmur heard at the apex radiating to the leftsternal border. there was an early decrescendo diastolic murmur atthe base in the aortic area , the lateral resolved with fluids.abdomen was tender in the epigastrium , it was very tender in thesuprapubic area. extremities were without edema , cord cyanosis orerythema. neurological examination was within normal limits onmodalities.laboratory data: sodium 140 , potassium 4.5 , chloride 105 ,bicarbonate 14 , bun of 12 , creatinine 0.6 ,glucose 290. white blood cell count 10.6 , platelets 255 ,hematocrit 36.1 with a mean corpuscular volume 85.5. coags werenormal. arterial blood gas ph 7.24 , po2 102 , pco2 of 27 ,bicarbonate 12. she was acid test positive. her chest x-rayshowed questionably large pulmonary arteries bilaterally. therewas no infiltrate or effusion noted. kub noted a large bladder.there was no bowel gas , we could not rule out ascites. ekg wasnotable for sinus tachycardia at 122 , intervals were 0.15 , 0.088and 0.47.hospital course: ms. buffey was admitted with a diagnosis ofdiabetic ketoacidosis. she was started onintravenous fluids of d5 normal saline with 40 meq of potassium perliter. she also received and insulin drip intravenously. she hadher finger stick blood glucoses checked every 2 hours. she alsohad her blood electrolytes and acid tests checked frequently.given the fact that she was febrile and had presented withacidosis , had a harsh cardiac murmur , she had blood cultures times3 drawn. there were no obvious sources of infection.regarding her gi bleed , she began to cough up coffee ground emesisafter repeated episodes of wretching throughout the day. thebleeding was thought to be due to a mallory-weiss tear due to theexcessive vomiting. the patient had an ng tube placed for lavagewhich quickly lavaged clear after approximately 1 liter of diluant.a nasal gastric tube was put to gomco low suction. additionally ,the patient had intravenous fluids running and her orthostatics andhematocrit were checked frequently. she was started on h2 blockersintravenously and a gi consultation was obtained.regarding the diabetic ketoacidosis , the patient obtainedconsultation from the endocrine division. with intravenous fluidsand insulin drip her ketoacidosis resolved. the endocrinologistsuggested the ultimate regimen of insulin which will be describedbelow. notably , the patient indicated that she could not reliablytime the midday lunch schedule. therefore , the patient was givensome flexibility in terms of dosing of insulin at that hour.regarding her cardiac workup , the patient was noted to have a loudsystolic murmur. she was evaluated by the dell hospitalwho recommended echocardiography. the results of theechocardiogram were as described below. the echocardiogram wasobtained on 18 of february , the results were as follows: the left atriumwas mildly dilated. the tricuspid valve leaflet excursion wasmildly increased with tricuspid regurgitation measured as 2+ out of4+ with a peak velocity of 2.5. it was thought that she had amildly dilated right atrium and a mildly concentric hypertrophiedleft ventricle. mitral regurgitation was 3+ out of 4+. leftventricular wall thickness was upper limits of normal withpreserved left ventricular systolic function ejection fraction of65 percent. the patient abnormalities of her atrial ventricularcanal noted consistent with ostium primum. her left and rightatrial ventricular grooves inserted at the same level of theintraventricular septum. there was some evidence of flow reversalin the pulmonary veins as well as the mitral regurgitation notedabove. there was a high flow velocity jet seen in the paramembraneof intraventricular septum , moving from left to right , consistentwith residual ventricular septal defect. there was no atrialseptal defect seen status post surgical repair. there was a smallechocardiogram bright density at the left ventricular site of theparamembranous septum thought to be an anomalous cord attachmentfrom the mitral valve versus endocarditis.on march , the patient underwent a transesophageal echocardiogramto evaluate this abnormality seen above. there was no evidence ofresidual atrial septal defect or ventricular septal defect. therewas an anomalous chordal attachment to the base of the interiorleaflet of the mitral valve and no endocarditis vegetations wereseen.the patient was noted to have hypertension and was started onlisinopril , nifedipine was transiently given but was discontinued.the patient was discharged in satisfactory condition on march ,1994. there were no complications of the hospitalization.operations and procedures of the hospitalization were an esophagealgastroduodenoscopy by dr. cornea on august , 1994.medications on discharge: at the time of discharge , the patientwas on lisinopril 20 mg po q day; insulin12 units plus a regular scale qam before breakfast , insulin 8 unitsplus the scale of regular insulin q noon before lunch , insulin 8units of regular plus a scale of regular qpm before supper , insulinnph 15 units subcutaneous qhs. the scale of regular insulin was asfollows: less than 80 , drink orange juice; greater than 80 , 1 unit;greater than the 120 , 2 units; greater than the 160 , 3 units;greater than 200 , 4 units; greater than 500 , 5 units; greater than300 , notify medical doctor.follow up care: the patient was to follow-up with the followingphysicians: dr. harlan flair at the varutldale memorial hospital , also dr. william fanizza in the woou land health and dr. dobles in the endocrinologyclinic. the patient was to schedule these appointments herself.estimated disability: none.discharge condition: satisfactory.dictated by: donn guderjahn , m.d. di49attending: beau a. rams , m.d. ss5rn385/1368batch: 5221 index no. dhpv1s4qb0 d: 9/0/94t: 0/14/941. aldo j. roughen , m.d. ha402. clark t. bicksler , m.d. cd16hospital[report_end]