admission date :2011-01-19discharge date :2011-01-25date of birth :1943-01-22sex :mservice :medicineindication for admission :transfer from rehab hospital of the cape & islands hospital for an endoscopic retrogram cholangiopancreatography .history of present illness :mr. eugene is a 67 year old male with a remote history of chronic pancreatitis due to alcohol abuse 30 years ago , who is transferred now from rehab hospital of the cape & islands hospital for an ercp and work-up for a cystic lesion at the head of his pancreas on ct scan shown at the outside hospital .the patient presented initially to rehab hospital of the cape & islands hospital at the end of december for abdominal pain , and was found to have pancreatitis .during this admission , two ct scans had shown a question of an enlargement of the head of his pancreasversus early pseudocyst .the patient was discharged home early from this admission due to family needs .while at home , the patient did not do well and could tolerate minimal food intake and lost about 20 pounds in one month .on an office visit on 01-14 , the patient was found to have significantly elevated alkaline phosphatase .that evening , the patient again developed abdominal pain " like his pancreatitis " with nausea and vomiting , for which he was admitted to the rehab hospital of the cape & islands hospital .in the emergency department at the rehab hospital of the cape & islands hospital , the patient was noted to have vomited some heme positive material .his complete blood count showed 11% bandemia with a total white count of 10 .a hida scan showed no flow , question of pancreatitis versus common bile duct obstruction .his electrocardiogram showed a normal sinus rhythm .a chest x-ray was unremarkable .during his admission to rehab hospital of the cape & islands hospital , the patient had dropped his hematocrit to the 30 s with recorded melena .he received an mrcp which was negative for evidence of stones .an ultrasound showed normal gallbladder with no wall thickening but a dilated common bile duct of 8 mm measured on ct scan .the patient had an attempted ercp on 01-18 , which was unsuccessful due to a long nipple like papilla .he was therefore transferred to saints medical center for endoscopic retrogram cholangiopancreatography .the patient 's blood cultures at outside hospital grew out streptococcus sanguis-gordonii on 01-18 .this was sensitive to clindamycin , erythromycin , penicillin s and vancomycin .prior to this result , the patient had already been on ampicillin , sulbactam and gentamycin .it appears from the discharge summary that the patient was placed on unasyn 3 grams intravenously every six hours after his ercp .past medical history :1. type 2 diabetes mellitus .2. right rotator cuff injury .3. gastroesophageal reflux disease with esophageal dilatation for stricture .4. recent pancreatitis ; prior history for recurrent pancreatitis 30 years ago from alcohol .5. history of streptococcemia in the year 2008 ; source was unclear but presumed to be urinary .6. status post tonsillectomy as a child .medications at home :1. prilosec 20 mg p.o. q. day .2. flomax 4 mg p.o. q. day .3. humalog 75/25 , subcutaneously .4. regular insulin 15 units q. a.m. and 14 units q. p.m.medications on admission from transfer :1. unasyn 3 grams intravenous every six hours .2. nph 10 units subcutaneously every morning and 8 units subcutaneously every evening .3. flomax 0.4 mg p.o. q. day .4. prilosec 30 mg p.o. q. day .5. regular insulin sliding scale .6. tylenol .allergies :the patient is allergic to ciprofloxacin , morphine sulfate and droperidol .social history :the patient lives with his disabled wife who has a psychiatric condition .he had a history of alcohol abuse but has been sober for 30 years .he is a retired painter .physical examination :on admission showed a temperature of 97.1 f. ; heart rate of 65 ; blood pressure of 146/74 ; respiratory rate of 20 ; oxygen saturation 98% on three liters and 95% on room air .the patient was alert , awake and oriented , pleasant , and in no acute distress .head , eyes , ears , nose and throat examination revealed mucous membranes that were moist .the patient has two teeth .he has fine dental hygiene .he had no icterus .cardiovascular system revealed normal s1 and s2 , no murmurs or gallops and regular rate and rhythm .pulmonary examination revealed lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally .abdominal examination revealed an abdomen that is nondistended , nontender .he had normoactive bowel sounds .his liver span was 8 cm .the antrum was palpable 3 cm below the costal margin .the spleen tip was palpable .there was no rebound ; no munos sign .extremities reveal no edema , no swelling .neurologic examination revealed an alert and oriented individual .his face was symmetric ; tongue was midline .his language was fluent and normal .the patient was moving all four extremities with ease .there was no formal strength test done .laboratory :studies revealed a hematocrit of 32.6 , white count of 6.0 .his platelet count was 267 .his mcv was 88 , red cell distribution was 13.4 .chemistry on admission showed a sodium of 141 , potassium of 4.3 , chloride of 107 , bicarbonate of 25 , bun of 4 , creatinine of 0.6 and a sugar of 177 .liver function tests revealed an alt of 31 , ast of 36 , alkaline phosphatase of 509 .total bilirubin was 0.8 .albumin was 2.6 .his blood cultures were drawn and pending .urinalysis revealed trace glucose , no ketones , no red cells , no white cells and less than one epithelial cells .course in hospital :the patient was taken down to the endoscopic retrogram cholangiopancreatogram upon admission .on this examination , the patient was found to have mild biliary stricture most likely secondary to chronic pancreatitis .cytology was obtained .he was also found to have dilated pancreatic ducts with calcifications consistent with chronic pancreatitis .the patient underwent a percutaneous sphincterotomy extended to a full sphincterectomy .he also had successful extraction of stone fragments .the patient tolerated this procedure well and had no complications .the patient subsequently underwent a ct scan angiogram with pancreas protocol to assess the pseudocyst versus enlarged pancreas head .the results of this study indicated that this structure at the head of his pancreas is most likely a forming pseudocyst ; however , the suspicion of malignancy is still possible and the patient underwent an ultrasound guided biopsy of this mass on 2011-01-20 .the cytology for this biopsy is still pending .the patient recovered well status post these two procedures .he had no complications and no subsequently pancreatitis .his alkaline phosphatase and all the other abnormal liver function tests were resolving .he had no pain and did not require any pain medications .he was tolerating food very well and was afebrile throughout admission .with regards to the patient 's documented strep septicemia in the outside hospital , the infectious disease team was formally consulted .upon obtaining more information from rehab hospital of the cape & islands hospital , it appears that the patient had two out of four bottles growing out streptococcus sanguis in the outside hospital .the patient appeared to have been covered by ampicillin , gentamycin and then unasyn in the outside hospital .the patient , on admission , was placed on ampicillin , gentamycin and flagyl .with repeated blood cultures that were negative , the patient was reduced to single mckenzie of intravenous ampicillin .for this documented septicemia , this patient went for a endocarditis work-up .he had a transthoracic echocardiogram which revealed no vegetations .on this echocardiogram , he was found to have mildly dilated left atrium , mild symmetric left ventricular hypertrophy , and a normal ejection fraction of greater than 55% .there were no other abnormalities noted on this study .the patient then underwent a transesophageal echocardiogram on 01-24 .on this echocardiogram , he was again noted to not have any evidence for valvular vegetations .a complex plaque was found in the aortic arch in the descending thoracic aorta , although this plaque is non-mobile .there was focal mitral valve prolapse noted without pathologic mitral regurgitation .the patient was noted to have trace aortic regurgitation .a panorex x-ray of his two teeth were obtained and a dental consultation was done .the patient was thought to have normal dental hygiene and low suspicion for a source of his alpha septicemia from his mouth .infectious disease department as well as cardiology had recommended a formal 14 - day course of intravenous antibiotics to treat a documented alpha streptococcal septicemia from outside hospital blood cultures .the patient 's insurance company , however , would not pay for home antibiotics .after much discussion with the patient , the patient was informed of the risks of not finishing a 14 day course of intravenous antibiotics and chose to go home .he had three days of antibiotics remaining at the time of discharge .it was discussed with the patient to send him out on augmentin 500 mg three times a day for ten more days .he was to follow-up with his primary care physician within two to three days for repeat laboratory studies and blood cultures .he was to return to the hospital with any signs of shaking chills or fever .discharge diagnoses :1. pancreatitis status post endoscopic retrogram cholangiopancreatography and sphincterotomy .2. alpha streptococcus septicemia .discharge medications :1. augmentin 500 mg p.o. three times a day times ten days .2. flomax 0.4 mg p.o. q. day .3. prilosec 20 mg p.o. q. day .4. humalog and regular insulin subcutaneously .hallo ming li , m.d.40-963dictated by : annie d. martinez , m.d.medquist36d : 2011-01-25 14:08t : 2011-01-26 11:30job #:09167signed electronically by : dr. dorothy l. brennan on : russell 2011-01-27 11:38 am( end of report )