record date: 2080-01-13edvisit^10776605^glenn, olivia^01/14/80^woodruff, fernei saw this patient in conjunction with dr. leyva and dr.forrest.  i confirm that i have interviewed and examined thepatient, reviewed the resident's documentation on the patient'schart, and discussed the evaluation, plan of care, anddisposition with the patient.chief complaint:  a 65-year-old female with difficulty breathing.history of present illness:  the patient with known multiplemedical problems presents with difficulty breathing.  at herrehabilitation facility was noted to be hypoxic and thus was senthere.  the patient's recent past medical history is remarkablefor a fall with cervical fractures, rib fractures, and subsequenthemothorax for which she was admitted to the educare-pullman icu over theend of december through the beginning of january.  the patient'schest tube was withdrawn approximately 10 days ago and thepatient has been doing well at rehab since.  however, today wasnoted to have desaturations to 80% on room air.  she hadshortness of breath as well.  her oxygen saturations improvedmarginally on oxygenation and have been responsive tononrebreather treatment in the transport here.  the patient wastreated with nebulizers and lasix without significant improvementand is noted to be quite tachypneic.past medical history:  remarkable for hypertension, chf,diabetes, asthma, chronic renal insufficiency, osteoporosis,anemia, and cervical fracture.social history, family history, and review of systems:  limitedby the severity of the patient's presentation.medications:  insulin, zocor, phoslo, calcium carbonate,protonix, niferex, norvasc, fosamax, epogen, lasix, lisinopril,colace, and xalatan.allergies:  morphine and aspirin.physical examination:  the patient is awake and alert, in somedegree of respiratory distress, however, able to interact andanswer questions in 1-2 word sentences.  vital signs are asdocumented with an elevated blood pressure of 176/96, pulse 76,and oxygen saturation is 98% on nonrebreather.  heent exam isatraumatic, normal to inspection.  the patient has a large tongueand her uvula is not visible at all.  neck is immobilized in ac-collar and is obese.  respiratory exam reveals decreased breathsounds diffusely with tachypnea and respiratory muscle accessoryuse.  cardiovascular exam:  regular rate and rhythm withoutmurmur.  pulses are palpable in all four extremities.  abdomen issoft and nontender, obese, but without any organomegaly ormasses, or guarding, or rebound.  skin is intact, warm, and drywithout any lesions or rash.  musculoskeletal exam revealstenderness over the right ribs where the patient has known ribfractures.  neurologically, she is oriented with difficultyspeaking due to respiratory distress but no focal neurologicdeficit.laboratory studies:  bnp is elevated in the 500-600 range.  whiteblood count is slightly elevated at 10, hematocrit 26.3, which isat the patient's baseline, and creatinine of 2.2.  lfts withinnormal limit.  inr 1.2.  d-dimer significantly elevated.  ekgdemonstrates sinus rhythm with nonspecific st-t wave changes.imaging studies:  chest x-ray shows bilateral effusions, whichare present previously but possibly slightly increased.emergency department course:  the patient was initially givenlasix and nitro with improvement in her blood pressure and wasalso started on cpap.  she seemed to be improving clinically forsome period of time but then began to decline in her mentalstatus.  at that time an abg was sent demonstrating hypoxia. prior to those results, the decision was made that the patientlikely needed intubation.  we had hope to hold off to do athoracentesis; however, the patient's clinical course declinessuch that it was not possible for her to sit up for theprocedure.  on cpap, the patient's oxygen saturations were stablethroughout in the 90s, but she developed increasing respiratorydistress.  intubation was complicated by her inability to flexher neck, her large tongue, and her body habitus; was successfulin two attempts with one episode of bag mask ventilation inbetween those attempts.  for full details of the procedure,please see the attached procedure note.  thoracic surgery wasconsulted.  they arrived as the patient was being intubated.  atthis time their recommendation is for a ct scan of the chest todetermine whether this is more likely a hemothorax or a pleuraleffusion and whether it is loculated.  this study will beperformed and then patient will be admitted to her ready bed inthe icu.  a bedside ultrasound was also performed by myself andthe resident demonstrating no obvious pericardial effusion.  not reviewed by attending physician primary diagnosis:  bilateral pleural effusions.secondary diagnosis:  respiratory distress.tertiary diagnosis:  question recurrent hemothorax versus pleuraleffusion.fourth diagnosis:  question chf.disposition:  admitted to the icu.critical care time:  75 minutes.______________________________woodruff, ferne mdd: 01/14/80t: 01/14/80dictated by: woodruff, ferneescription document:9-3389642 bffocus