916376647 | elsuomc | 23847131 | | 623037 | 3/11/1994 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 7/29/1994 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/29/1994principle diagnosis: hypotensive episode.significant problems: 1. end stage renal disease on chronichemodialysis. 2. mild mental retardation.3. movement disorder ( tics ). 4. status post parathyroidectomy.5. partial thyroidectomy. 6. status post partial gastrectomy forpeptic ulcer disease. 7. history of mrsa from wound in 1988.history of present illness: the patient is a 46-year-oldgentleman with end stage renal diseaseon chronic hemodialysis who was admitted status post fall andseizure. the patient's end stage renal disease is thought to besecondary to hypertension , although he has never had a renalbiopsy. he has been on hemodialysis since 1987 , having dialysisthree times a week. his dry weight is about 85 to 86 kilos. hisdialysis has been complicated by multiple episodes in the past ofhypotension and seizure activity occurring after dialysis. theseepisodes occur about once a month.on the day of admission , the patient came home from routinehemodialysis where he was ultrafiltered 5.5 kilograms of fluid andhis final blood pressure after dialysis was 100/60. at noon , thepatient went home , ate lunch and went up to his room. at that timehe complained of feeling dizzy and sitting on the edge of the bedtold his uncle that he was not feeling well and then slumped ontothe floor. he does not believe that he hurt himself , i.e. , did nothurt his head , although he did complain of some right foot pain.he was still conscious as his uncle lifted him back to bed and thenan ambulance was called.after a few minutes , the patient lost consciousness , rolling hiseyes back with some facial twitching bilaterally and tongueretraction. this episode lasted about five minutes. there was notongue biting , no urinary incontinence or bowel incontinence. thepatient gained full recovery of his alertness upon waking up butwas a bit diaphoretic. his aunt checked his vital signs which wereblood pressure 70/40 , pulse 79. the patient had also complained ofchest pain for a few minutes prior to his episode. when the emtsarrived , the patient was alert and oriented times three , cold andclammy , temperature 98.6 , pulse 89 , respirations 26 , blood pressure82/60.the patient was brought to the emergency room and was orthostaticby blood pressure ( 10 points ) from lying to sitting. he was given500 ccs of normal saline and was no longer orthostatic , comfortablysitting up in the bed. at about 9:00 p.m. he complained of feelingdizzy and became diaphoretic while trying to stand up. the patientwas again brought into bed. he became unresponsive for one minutewith his eyes rolled up and some bilateral face twitching. thisepisode only lasted about one minute. the patient was admitted forobservation.past medical history reveals the following: 1 ) mild mentalretardation since about 10 years ago. 2 ) movement disorder ( tics )on stelazine. 3 ) end stage renal disease thought to be secondaryto hypertension. 4 ) status post parathyroidectomy for secondaryhyperparathyroidism. 5 ) partial thyroidectomy for goiterincidentally found at surgery. 6 ) status post partial gastrectomyfor peptic ulcer disease in the 1960's. 7 ) history of mrsa fromwound in 1988. 8 ) hepatitis b surface antibody positive andhepatitis c virus positive. medications on admission: calciumcarbonate , 1250 mg po tid; nephrocaps , 1 po qd; dht , 0.2 mg po qd;stelazine , 2 mg po tid. there are no known allergies. socialhistory: the patient was a former smoker and has a history ofalcohol abuse but no iv drug use. he lives with his aunt and uncleand is mildly retarded.physical examination: on physical examination , vital signsshowed a lying blood pressure of 96/60 ,pulse 80 , sitting up blood pressure 104/70 , pulse 96 , temperature97.5 , o2 sat 95% on room air. the patient was a well nourished ,black male in no apparent distress. heent exam was unremarkable.neck showed jvd of 4 cms. no lymphadenopathy. chest was clear toauscultation. heart revealed s1 , s2 , normal rate and rhythm with a1/6 systolic murmur best heard at the left upper sternal border.no cva tenderness. abdomen was soft , nontender , no masses. bowelsounds were positive. the patient was guaiac negative with brownstool. extremities revealed a tender , edematous dorsal aspect ofright foot , with full range of motion at the ankle joint. leftextremity benign. neuro exam was grossly nonfocal.laboratory data: on admission , sodium 142 , potassium 4.8 ,chloride 94 , bicarb 32 , bun 38 , creatinine 8.6 ,glucose 168. a cbc revealed white count of 8.82 , hematocrit 35 ,platelets 246. calcium was 9.7. chest x-ray revealed mildpulmonary vascular redistribution with no significant chf and noinfiltrates. ankle x-rays on the right revealed no fracture ordislocation. ekg revealed normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 76 ,axis 2 degrees , some 1 mm st elevations in i and avl , t-waves flatin lead iii. the slight elevations in st were consistent with ekgon 1/9/94.hospital course: the patient was observed overnight and put onan oral renal diet , checking orthostaticsfrequently. the patient remained asymptomatic throughout hishospital course and remained hemodynamically stable with noorthostasis. the patient was evaluated by the renal service whoassessed that this episode was most likely secondary to theextensive fluid removal from dialysis leading to a low bloodpressure. in addition , they noted that seizures and orthostasisare often seen status post dialysis in some patients. theyrecommended no further work up of this seizure episode andrecommended no prophylaxis with an antiepileptic. the patientunderwent dialysis again on 6/5/94 per schedule. after thisdialysis , the patient was asymptomatic , not orthostatic and did notcomplain of any light headedness.as the patient complained of right foot pain , right foot films wereobtained which revealed nondisplaced fractures of the second ,third , fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. orthopaedic service wasconsulted who put the patient in a bivalve cast with a toe plate.physical therapy was consulted. the patient was allowed to sit ina chair and engage in nonweight bearing activities. his foot waselevated on three pillows for 72 hours. the patient remainedhemodynamically stable and now awaits placement into a skillednursing facility for rehabilitation , given his casted right lowerleg.disposition: the patient will be discharged on his medicationsfrom admission which include: 1 ) nephrocaps , 1 poqd. 2 ) calcium carbonate , 1250 mg po tid. 3 ) dht , 0.2 mg po qd.4 ) stelazine , 2 mg po tid. the patient will be seen again inorthopaedics clinic on friday , 5/13/94 at 9:15 a.m. the patient isdischarged in stable condition to a rehab/skilled nursing facilityper wishes of patient , family and per recommendation of physicaltherapy.dictated by: maximo rauh , m.d.attending: luis b. depugh , m.d. sa12jw850/4289batch: 288 index no. fqsz357xhr d: 5/6/94t: 5/6/94