284137413 th6948615913751327/27/2006 12:00:00 amrt. ovarian masssigneddisadmission date :07/27/2006report status :signeddischarge date :08/04/2006attending :eak , na mdservice :gynecology .discharge diagnosis :hemorrhagic right ovarian cyst , status post laparoscopy converted to laparotomy , right salpingo-oophorectomy , lysis of dense ileal adhesions with enterotomy , ileal resection with primary anastomosis .history of present illness :ms. straight is a 48-year-old g2 , p2 who presented on referral to dr. eak for evaluation with a 9-cm pelvic mass and complaint of abdominal pelvic pain .her gynecological history is notable for endometriosis and ms. straight is status post total abdominal hysterectomy in 2002 .her ca-125 preoperatively was 23 .ms. straight was consented for diagnostic laparoscopy , excision of pelvic mass , and possible removal of right ovary .operative risks were reviewed with the patient per dr. eak including the risks of conversion to laparotomy .she had a preoperative bowel prep .past gyn history :endometriosis , status post total abdominal hysterectomy in 2002 for fibroids .past ob history :g2 , p2 .past medical history :history of functional heart murmur .past surgical history :in 1995 bilateral breast implants , in 2002 total abdominal hysterectomy for fibroids .allergies :no known drug allergies .social history :denies smoking , alcohol use .family history :no family history of breast , colon or gynecological malignancies .no family of history of cardiac disease , hypertension , and diabetes mellitus .hospitalization course :on july 27 , 2006 , ms. straight underwent pelviscopy that was converted to a laparotomy with right salpingo-oophorectomy , lysis of adhesions , right ileal resection with primary reanastomosis and appendectomy .please refer to operative report dictation for full details of the operative course .briefly , there is noted to be dense adhesions involving the ileum , the appendix , cecum , pelvic cystic mass and the right ovary .in the course of lysis of adhesions a small enterotomy in ileum was noted .general surgical consultation was obtained from dr. obe who performed lysis of ileal adhesions with another small enterotomy secondary to dense adhesions .an approximately 3-4 cm segment of the ileum was resected with a primary end to end reanastomosis .the estimated blood loss was 200 ml .the final surgical pathology showed a right hemorrhagic cyst of undetermined origin with extensive adhesions , peri-appendiceal adhesions and ileum with adhesions .postoperatively , ms. straight was maintained with an ng tube and bowel rest until postoperative day #5 when she passed flatus .of note , on postoperative day #3 and #4 , she spiked isolated temperatures to 101 .evaluation was unrevealing in terms of focal source of her fever .the urine and blood cultures were negative .chest x-ray was negative .after postoperative day #4 , she experienced no further episodes of fever .following her ng tube discontinuation on postoperative day #5 , she experienced three to four episodes of bilious emesis .on examination , her abdomen was nondistended and she had normal bowel sounds .a kub confirmed no evidence of an ileus or obstruction .she was managed conservatively and kept npo for one night and then her diet was advanced slowly .by the evening of postoperative day #7 , she was tolerating full house diet and had two spontaneous bowel movements .it was unclear her etiology of her emesis following ng tube removal although possibly secondary to a subclinical ileus .it is also a possibility that she had gastroenteritis from her relative who had presented recently to the ed with similar course of low grade fevers , emesis that resolved in short course .at time of discharge ( postoperative day #8 08/04/06 ) , she was tolerating a house diet .she was voiding ambulating and had remained afebrile for over 72 hours .she was deemed to appropriate for discharge home with followup with dr. eak in five weeks .discharge condition :stable .discharge instructions :ms. straight is consulted to followup with dr. eak in approximately five weeks for her postoperative evaluation .she was consulted to contact him in the event of fever , wound , complications , worsening nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , shortness of breath or any other health concerns .she is asked to refrain from lifting heavy weights or strain for six weeks and nothing in vagina for six weeks and to avoid driving while taking narcotic pain medications .discharge medications :1. oxycodone 5 mg p.o. q.4 h. p.r.n. pain .2. motrin 600 mg p.o. q.6 h. p.r.n. pain .3. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. constipation4. slow fe 320 mg p.o. b.i.d.