080949836 | ths | 83997567 | | 422189 | 10/2/1997 12:00:00 am | syncope | signed | dis | admission date: 4/20/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 8/9/1997principal diagnosis: syncope.significant problems: 1. idiopathic cardiomyopathy.2. atypical chest pain.history of present illness: the patient is a 64-year-old woman whohas lived in tall dis thou since 1993.she has a history of chest pain and has a baseline ekg with anintraventricular conduction delay , qrs interval of 0.10. hercardiac history includes: in february 1988 , she underwent anexercise tolerance test for chest pain. the patient went 7 minutes35 seconds and had a maximum heart rate of 100 , maximum bloodpressure not recorded. she developed a left bundle branch blockwith exercise. a thallium scan showed no evidence of ischemia. inseptember 1992 , she had an exercise tolerance test for chest pain andshortness of breath. she went 9 minutes 0 seconds and had amaximum heart rate of 167 with maximum blood pressure 138/60. shedeveloped angina during the test. the spect scan showed a moderatefixed defect in the apicolateral wall. in 2/6 , she had an ekgdone which showed normal sinus rhythm with a qrs interval of 0.10and moderate lvh. in 1995 , the patient states that she had acardiac catheterization in auriend road , kane cho , mississippi 13286 which showed no coronarydisease , although she was told that she had a cardiomyopathy. thepatient reports feeling well until the day of admission without anychest pain , shortness of breath , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , ororthopnea in the recent past. on the afternoon of admission , atabout 2 o'clock in the afternoon , she was watching television. shearose from the couch and went to the kitchen to get a cup ofcoffee. she recalls filling her cup with water , then recallsnothing else until she awoke with her grandchildren lying on halfof her on the floor and crying. the patient was oriented uponawakening and recognized her grandchildren immediately. she didnot have any incontinence or tongue biting. she denied muscleaches , somnolence , confusion , or weakness. she went to the couchto sit down and had nausea and vomiting about five minutes afterher syncopal episode. she also noted a bump on the right side ofher head and subsequently developed a headache. she did not haveany neurologic symptoms , denied any chest pain or shortness ofbreath. she was diaphoretic at the time that she was sitting onthe cough , nauseous and vomiting afterwards. she had nopalpitations and she had no presyncopal sensation or dizziness atany time. she does report having a history of palpitations in thepast , but none on the day of admission. she had no fevers , chills ,or other sick contacts. she had no prior history of syncope orloss of consciousness. she had no history of seizures or transientneurologic symptoms. in addition , she does report that she has ahistory of chest pain. the last time was more than a year prior toadmission. she has no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , no pedaledema , no orthopnea , and no change in exercise tolerance recently.she climbs stairs without any problems.past medical history: 1. hypertension. 2. chest pain , lastepisode approximately one year prior toadmission. 3. palpitations. 4. question of cardiomyopathy ,diagnosed by cardiac catheterization in sa in 1995.admission medications: 1. vasotec 10 mg p.o. q.day. 2. digoxin0.25 mg p.o. q.day. 3. lasix 20 mg q.day.allergies: no known drug allergies.family history: negative for coronary artery disease , stroke ,diabetes mellitus , hypertension , and sudden death.social history: the patient does not smoke , does not drinkalcohol , and does not use iv drugs. she liveswith her daughter in co ville at this time of year. she works in anoutreach program as a nurse. she came from ige pkwy , norfsta olk mer , new hampshire 25909 where shehas been since 1993. prior to that time , she was living in birhamstonroand receiving medical care at the cla du rencein hospital .physical examination: vital signs included a blood pressure of130/70 , pulse 62 ( the patient had a bloodpressure of 200/100 when initially seen in the emergencydepartment ). she was an elderly woman in no apparent distress.her heent examination was remarkable for having poor dentition.her jvp was at 8 cm. her chest was clear. her cardiovascularexamination revealed an s1 , s2 and intermittent s3 , no murmurs ,with regular rate. her abdomen was soft and nontender. herextremities were warm without any cyanosis , clubbing , or edema.neurological examination was unremarkable. her mental status wasentirely intact. cranial nerve examination was grossly intact.her reflexes were 2+ throughout and her toes did not respond to thebabinski stimulation.laboratory data: she had a ck of 119 , magnesium 2.2. her digoxinlevel was 0.7. troponin i was 0. electrolyteswere entirely within normal limits , as were bun and creatinine.white blood cell count was 10.3 , hematocrit 36.5 , and plateletcount 298. urinalysis revealed 0-1 white cells , 0-1 red cells , 1+bacteria , and 1+ epithelial cells. chest x-ray revealed noevidence of congestive heart failure or infiltrate. ekg , at thetime of admission , showed normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 93 withintervals of 0.183 , 0.15 , and 0.417. she had a left bundle branchblock which was new since her 1993 ekg.hospital course: the patient was admitted for work up of hersyncopal episode. by hospital day one , thepatient underwent a rule out for myocardial infarction. herenzymes were flat and her ekg showed no changes consistent withacute myocardial infarction. in addition , she underwent anechocardiogram which revealed an ejection fraction of 30%-35%. shealso had anterolateral wall motion abnormalities. on the followingday , the patient underwent a right sided heart catheterization ,which revealed that her coronary arteries were completely clean.she underwent an ep study which was entirely normal. on thefollowing hospital day , she underwent an exercise tolerance test ,and no arrhythmias were triggered by her exercise. carotidnoninvasive studies revealed minimal disease bilaterally , and theneurology service was consulted. the patient also underwent a tilttable study , which was entirely normal , with no suggestion of avasovagal response. at the time of discharge , the patient had hadno further symptoms and no further episodes of syncope while inhospital. her holter monitor results are pending. the feeling isthat her syncopal event was most likely cardiac related , probablyrelated to a tachycardic arrhythmia. however , her neurologic workup is still underway. she is to have an mri/mra as an outpatientand to follow up in dispan ni ti hospital clinic , as well as with dr. triche forfurther discussion as to whether aicd placement might be in order.discharge medications: 1. enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o.q.day. 2. digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q.day. 3.vasotec 15 mg p.o. q.day. 4. lasix 20 mg p.o. q.day. 5. atenolol12.5 mg p.o. q.day.disposition: the patient was discharged to home to follow up ini minvic medical center clinic with me ( leo paponetti ) on 4/29/97 .  shewill have an mra/mri of her brain scheduled as an outpatient. inaddition , she will be set up with an ecg loop recorder for furthermonitoring of events at home.dictated by: chadwick metta , m.d. bt34attending: stanton h. othman , m.d. mc52  jn247/5213batch: 41940 index no. r6le3g27rp d: 8/23/97t: 8/20/97