admission date :2014-07-24discharge date :2014-08-09service :blue general surgeryhistory of the present illness :mrs. gonzalez is a patient with a prior medical history including hypothyroidism , iron-deficiency anemia , osteoporosis , increased cholesterol , peptic ulcer disease , chronic constipation , and status post appendectomy as well as status post hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy .she was transferred from an outside hospital for evaluation and treatment of adenocarcinoma involving the transverse colon and gallbladder .at the outside hospital the patient had already seemed some workup for a couple weeks duration of bilateral upper quadrant pain which occasionally radiated to her back .she was also complaining of fatigue for two weeks but a good appetite and the patient denied weight loss , melena , or bright red blood per rectum .a cat scan of the abdomen showed air-fluid levels in the gallbladder .it also showed a thickened gallbladder wall as well as a dilated common bile duct .incidentally , it also showed diverticulosis .a hida scan at the other hospital did not show filling of the gallbladder indicating some sort ofcystic duct obstruction .the first imaging study that was done at hahnemann general hospital was a mrcp which revealed an enhanced thickened gallbladder wall consistent with chronic cholecystitis .a differential according to the imaging included a fistula with adjacent inflammatory change but also carcinoma or adenomatosis .in addition, also the mrcp showed a mass near the region of the neck of the gallbladder .of note , at the outside hospital , an endoscopy and colonoscopy were performed .the colonoscopy showed two polyps and also a region in the transverse colon that was biopsied .this biopsy came back as positive for adenocarcinoma .the diagnosis of adenocarcinoma was already established prior to her admission at this hospital .hospital course :the patient was scheduled for an operative date on 2014-07-29 and over the next few days she wasgiven a low-residual diet .she had her belly cleaned with hibiclens one a day and once an adequate preoperative evaluation was performed , she was given a bowel prep on monday afternoon and evening in preparation for an exploratory laparotomy on tuesday , 2014-07-29 .on the morning of 2014-07-29 , the patient was taken to the operating room and underwent a cholecystectomy , partial hepatectomy , partial lymph node dissection , a colocolostomy , partial colectomy , and in addition a gastrostomy and a feeding jejunostomy were also put in place .please refer to the previously dictated operative notes for the details of this surgery .briefly , the surgery on 2014-07-29 revealed a carcinoma of the gallbladder with a cholecystocolonic fistula which crossed into the liver as well as metastatic adenopathy around the portal nodes as well as retroperitoneal nodes around the inferior vena cava and the hepatic artery .in addition to the gastrostomy and feeding jejunostomy tube , two belmont-gardner drains were placed .the patient 's pain postoperatively was controlled with an epidural catheter .however , the epidural had the consequence of causing a bit of a hypotension in the patient and the patient was admitted to the surgical icu for the first postoperative day .in addition , the patient had low hematocrits which required a transfusion of packed red blood cells .in addition , on postoperative day number two , the patient was transferred out to the floor and she was doing better in terms of pain control on a dilaudid pca machine .on postoperative day number two , interestingly , the patient was complaining of sensitivity to light from an unknown etiology .the patient 's postoperative course was unremarkable aside from the photophobia .on postoperative day number two , an oncology consult with dr. natalie mcalister was obtained andfollow-up appointments were scheduled with him as an outpatient .following that , the patient was slowly advanced to clear liquids and to a regular diet once her bowels began working when she began having flatus .her bowel function was slow to develop and she needed to remain n.p.o. until postoperative day number six .the patient was also given supplemental tube feedings to supplement her calories and caloric intake .on postoperative day number seven , the patient was tolerating her clear liquid diet and her tube feeds .she was started on p.o. medicines and her first belmont-gardner drain was pulled due to scant output .by 2014-08-09 , the patient was tolerating a full solid diet as well as her tube feeds .between the two of those , her caloric intake was sufficient for her to sustain herself .she was discharged to home with services including tube feedings for her home care .therefore , she was discharged on 2014-08-09 in good condition .discharge diagnosis :1. metastatic gallbladder cancer .2. status post cholecystectomy .3. status post transverse colectomy with anastomosis .4. g tube placement .5. feeding jejunostomy .6. hypothyroidism .7. blood loss requiring transfusion .discharge medications :1. levothyroxine 100 micrograms orally once a day .2. pantoprazole one tablet once a day .3. ambien 10 mg orally before bed .4. tylenol # 3 one tablet every four hours as needed for pain .5. reglan 10 mg four times a day before meals and at bedtime .6. colace 100 mg twice a day .discharge instructions :follow-up with the visiting nurses association to arrange assistance with her tube feeding andher activities of daily living .the patient is also scheduled for an appointment with dr. patterson approximately two weeks after her discharge from the hospital .