record #223498193647167 | pmc | 94619037 | | 848231 | 4/22/1992 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 6/5/1992 report status: signeddischarge date: 0/7/1992principal diagnoses: syncope.sleep apnea.depression.operations/procedures: echocardiography.holter monitoring.exercise tolerance testing.sleep study.history of present illness: the patient is a 47 year old whitemale with a history ofinsulin-dependent diabetes , hypertension , and coronary arterydisease. the patient presents with multiple syncopal episodes inthe week prior to admission. cardiac risk factors includediabetes , hypertension and a positive family history. he does notsmoke and has normal cholesterol. he has chronic stable angina forwhich he needs one to three nitroglycerin per day over severalmonths. he has been gaining weight and has increasing peripheraledema. he also notes decreased exercise tolerance and increasingfatigue and dyspnea on exertion. he complains of pnd but deniesorthopnea. in 1/28 he had a standard bruce exercise test in whichhe went 8 minutes and 15 seconds , stopping for typical chest painwith a heart rate of 150 and blood pressure of 186/90. he had noekg changes and no arrhythmias. thallium scanning showed anteriorand apical perfusion defects with delayed reperfusion.echocardiography at that time showed mild concentric hypertrophyand akinesis of the anterior , lateral and apical walls. he hadonly mildly decreased left ventricular function and no valvulardisease. the patient has been admitted to the shire health center where he has undergone coronary angiography ,which showed that his coronary arteries had no significantobstruction. over the week prior to admission he had four episodesof syncope which occurred at various times , not related to meals.he was usually standing or walking just prior to the episode.there is a 15 to 30 second prodrome of nausea , diaphroresis , andthe sensation of spinning. he does not have chest pain orshortness of breath. he has had a total of four episodes with lossof consciousness and falling. he does have urinary incontinencebut has not been witnessed to have involuntary movements. there isno post ictal state. there has been no recent change in hismedical regimen. the patient also describes the symptoms ofsnoring at night with fatigue and has been noticed to make gaspingsounds during sleep. he complains of waking up frequently at night ,feeling as though he cannot catch his breath and admits to a weightgain of 100 pounds over the last several years. he has a historyof depression and suicidal ideation and currently is depressed andhas had thoughts of wishing he were dead. past medical history:peptic ulcer disease , hypertension , depression , diabetes mellitusfor ten years and a distant history of seizures after head trauma.social history: he is currently a student and former alcoholic.he is currently separated from his wife and has three sons and adaughter. family history: remarkable for diabetes in both motherand father and hypertension in both parents. he claims bothparents had cardiomyopathy. allergies: the patient claims to havefever and edema with a rash to procardia. medications on admit:lasix 20 mg p.o.q.d. prn , diltiazem 90 mg p.o.t.i.d. , quinine 300mg p.o.q.h.s. , isordil 30 mg p.o.t.i.d. , aspirin one per day ,atenolol 50 mg p.o.q.d. , lysinopril 20 mg p.o.q.d. , sublingualnitroglycerin prn , nph insulin 40 units in the morning , 20 atnight , regular insulin 20 units in the a.m. , sucralfate one gramp.o.q.i.d..physical examination: afebrile with a normal pulse and bloodpressure of 130/90. he was not orthostatic ,head and neck benign. no carotid bruits. lungs clear. heart: hehas a normal s1 and s2 with an s4. there is no murmur. abdomenobese without masses. rectal: guaiac negative. normal prostate.he has edema to his knees bilaterally. neurologic: he haspressured speech and a tearful affect. he is alert and oriented.cns intact. motor strength is full. he has no sensory deficitsand normal position sense. he has diminished reflexes throughoutbut downgoing toes bilaterally.laboratory examination: he had a glucose of 323 , but otherwisenormal admission laboratories except foran ldh of 529 and an alkaline phosphatase of 151. admission ck was138 , amylase of 56 , lipase of 52. hemoglobin a1c 8.3 , cholesterol170 , ua shows 2+ glucose. chest x-ray shows a normal size heartwith clear lungs. ekg shows sinus at 70 with normal axis andintervals. there are flat t waves in i , l , and iii , but no changefrom a previous ekg.hospital course: the patient underwent holter monitoring in whichhe had no arrhythmias. he occasionally had sinustachycardia. an exercise test showed that he went six minutes and17 seconds of a standard bruce protocol. his maximum heart ratewas 140 and blood pressure was 210/60. there were no ekg changeswith the exception of unifocal pvcs , so that there was no evidencefor ischemia. he had an echocardiogram which showed normal valvesand normal left ventricular function. notably the right side ofhis heart was also normal. the patient also underwent sleep studyduring the day after sleep deprivation the previous night. thestudy lasted only 1-1/2 hours and the patient was not noted duringthat time to have sleep apnea. however , an overnight study wasrecommended.disposition: discharge medications are the same as his admissionmedications with the addition of prozac 20 mgp.o.q.d. he follows up with dr. lonnie otanicar in ry memorial hospital clinic.jj217/6989felix windly , m.d. mj9 d: 3/17/92batch: 2093 report: k5236q26 t: 0/21/92dictated by: luke westfield , m.d.[report_end]