719127931ctmc381678974885178/28/1998 12:00:00 amcolon carcinomasigneddisadmission date :08/28/1998report status :signeddischarge date :09/01/1998principal diagnosis :colon cancer .history of present illness :the patient is a 54 year-old woman who noted an episode of rectal bleeding approximately three weeks prior to admission .this last for about 20 minutes .since then , she has had no further episodes .the patient was worked with colonoscopy in may and it was noted to have a sigmoid mass , the biopsy of which was positive for adenocarcinoma .the patient underwent an abdominal cat scan which revealed two areas of metastatic disease in the liver .the patient currently feels well , denies any abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , weight loss , denies any family history of colon cancer .social history :the patient denies any smoking history and reports occasional alcohol consumption .medications on admission :iron supplements twice daily .allergies :the patient had no known drug allergies .physical examination :vital signs :blood pressure 120/60 , heart rate 76 , height 5 ' 5 " , weight 157 lbs .the patient was a well appearing white middle aged woman in no apparent distress .skin was intact and tan .there was no evidence of any jaundice .there was no palpable adenopathy .heent examination revealed that the pupils were equal , round and reactive to light .extraocular movements were intact .sclerae were non-icteric .oropharynx was moist .the neck was supple .lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally .heart was regular rate and rhythm .no murmurs were appreciated .the abdomen was soft , non-tender , non-distended .there were bowel sounds in all quadrants .there was no evidence of any hepatosplenomegaly .no costovertebral angle tenderness was noted .rectal examination revealed guaiac positive stool and no palpable masses .neurological examination revealed that the patient was alert and oriented times three .extremities revealed no evidence of edema of the lower extremities bilaterally .hospital course :on the day of admission , the patient was taken to the operative suite , where she underwent a sigmoid resection by dr. kotefooksshuff and dr. ischird .the patient tolerated the procedure well .the patient was transferred to the post anesthesia care unit in stable extubated state .from there , the patient was transferred to the surgical floor .her postoperative course was uncomplicated .her nasogastric tube was removed on postoperative day number one and the patient was continued on our hospital colectomy pathway .she was started on clear liquids and from there advanced via a gentle diet to a house diet .by the time of discharge , the patient was doing well .she had had several bowel movements .she was tolerating a house diet and was tolerating her pain with the aid of percocet to be taken orally .her wound at the time of discharge was clean .it was healing well .there was no evidence of any wound infection .the patient was discharged to her home in stable state .medications on discharge :1) colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.2) percocet 1-2 tablets p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain .follow-up :the patient was instructed to call dr. kotefooksshuff to schedule an appointment in two weeks following the date of discharge .dictated by :linehy jescgerlebreutz , m.d. bw88attending :telshey k. base , m.d. rh5 xh616/5421batch :03665index no. jiirf6556zd :09/18/98t :09/18/98