record #811352466605453 | fmih | 88455449 | | 7789103 | 7/9/2006 12:00:00 am | heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 6/29/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/15/2006attending: kappler , trinidad mdchief complaint: shortness of breath.history of present illness: this is a 70-year-old woman with ahistory of an ischemic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fractionof 35% and also a history of coronary artery disease status postmi , insulin-dependent diabetes , peripheral vascular disease andchronic renal insufficiency who presented with volume overloaded.the patient was recently discharged after a 9-day admission from3/30/2006 to 05 for a chf exacerbation. during theprevious admission , she had been diuresed with a lasix drip andthen started on amiodarone and coumadin for a new paroxysmalatrial fibrillation. after discharge , she presented to nschccardiology clinic on 9/28/2006 with a jugular venous pressure at15 cm and severe bilateral lower extremity edema and a bnp of2500. the assessment in clinic was that she had been underdiuresed in the previous admission and therefore she was directlyadmitted to poredtiesbarre general hospital for reinitiation of aggressivediuresis. of note , the patient had recently changed from lasixto torsemide after the last discharge as her outpatientmedication. she endorsed worsened orthopnea , dyspnea onexertion , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea as well as early satiety.she denied any chest pain or other anginal equivalents.past medical history:1. ischemic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of 30%-35%.2. paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , newly on coumadin andamiodarone.3. coronary artery disease status post mi.4. peripheral vascular disease status post left tibial bypassand fem-pop bypass.5. hypertension.6. hyperlipidemia.7. glaucoma.8. diabetes with retinopathy.9. osteoarthritis.10. anemia.11. obesity.12. chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine of2.9 followed by svmc renal clinic.medications at home:1. torsemide 100 mg q.a.m. and 50 mg q.p.m.2. ativan 0.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. anxiety.3. folate 1 mg p.o. daily.4. lipitor 80 mg p.o. at bedtime.5. lantus 18 units subcutaneously nightly6. coumadin 1 mg q.p.m.7. lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.8. procrit 40 , 000 units subcutaneously every other week.9. nitroglycerin sublingual p.r.n. chest pain.10. aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.11. vitamin b12 subcutaneous injections at clinic.12. amiodarone 200 mg p.o. daily.13. iron 325 mg p.o. t.i.d.14. metolazone p.r.n.allergies: lisinopril and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents.social history: the patient is married and lives at home withher husband. she quit tobacco with rare alcohol use and nodrugs.family history: noncontributory. there is no family history ofcardiac disease.physical examination: on admission , temperature was 98.9 , heartrate 70 , blood pressure 104/50 , respiratory rate of 20 , oxygensaturation 95% on room air. in general , the patient wascomfortable in no acute distress. heent , pupils were equal ,round , and reactive. oropharynx was clear. the jvp was greaterthan 15 cm , chest exam showed bilateral crackles at the baseswith bibasilar dullness well as well as right greater than leftbase. cardiovascular was regular rate and rhythm with a s3 andno murmur. abdomen soft , nontender , nondistended with anonpulsatile liver. extremities showed 3+ pitting edemabilaterally to the hips with bilateral changes of arterial andvenous insufficiency. laboratory studies were significant for aninr of 1.6 , bun of 110 , creatinine 3 , white blood cell count of11.7 and a hematocrit of 27.9.ekg on admission was a normal sinus rhythm with evidence of aprevious anterior mi with lateral repolarization , st and t waveabnormalities , and possible lvh.chest x-ray showed bilateral effusions , left greater than rightwith increased vascular markings and fluid in the right fissure ,but no discrete infiltrates.impression: this is a 70-year-old woman with ischemiccardiomyopathy with an ef of 35% , coronary artery disease statuspost mi , insulin-dependent diabetes , peripheral vascular disease ,chronic renal insufficiency who presented in volume overloadafter a recent admission with insufficient diuresis.hospital course by problem:1. cardiovascular. in terms of pump , the patient was clearly ingross volume overload from both the right sided and left-sidedfailure on presentation. her blood pressure was stable and shehad no evidence of severely decreased cardiac output or/and organperfusion. she was started on the lasix drip at 10 mg per hourand zaroxolyn at 2.5 mg p.o. daily. her lopressor was held for adecompensated heart failure. she initially diuresed wellovernight; however , on the second day her diuresis tapered offand her lasix drip was turned up to 20 mg per hour and thezaroxolyn was increased to b.i.d. she met her i&amp;o goal ofgreater than 1 liter negative overnight the following night ,however , a day later , she again had poor diuresis and thezaroxolyn was changed to diuril. at this time , a repeat chestx-ray showed a very little change in her bilateral pleuraleffusions , so her diuresis up to this point was felt to beinsufficient. after the transition from zaroxolyn to diuril ,which was given 250 mg iv b.i.d. , she was noted to have anincrease in creatinine from 2.9. gradually up to 3.2; however ,remained stable for the next few days and the patient was able tomaintain good diuresis on this regimen without bump in hercreatinine.on 6/27/2006 , she was noted to have greatly improved lowerextremity edema and that improved lung exam and she had met hergoal weight of less than 85 kilograms. lasix drip wasdiscontinued in the afternoon on 6/27/2006 and she was restartedon her home p.o. torsemide regimen of 100 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 50mg p.o. q.p.m. for anticipated discharge home on 5/15/2006 .  thediuril was also discontinued. the patient was anticipated to bestable on b.i.d. torsemide and p.o. on metolazone at home. hernew dry weight on this admission was established at 85 kilogramsand this should be at a goal for diuresis should she requireadmission in the future.she will follow up with her csh cardiologist for furthermonitoring of her volume status after discharge. in terms ofrhythm , the patient had a new presentation of atrial fibrillationon the prior admission and was started on amiodarone and coumadinat that time. she was in normal sinus rhythm on presentation atthis admission and remained in normal sinus rhythm throughout theadmission and was monitored on telemetry with no other events.she was continued on her home dose of amiodarone and continued oncoumadin; however despite the dose being decreased from her homedose of 1 mg q.p.m. to a 0.5 mg q.p.m. , her inr continued to riseand was eventually 3.5. her coumadin was discontinued. she wasrecommended to be discharged off coumadin and follow up with herprimary care provider during the week following discharge torecheck her inr and restart her coumadin when it falls below 2.5.in terms of ischemia , the patient had no acute evidence ofischemia on presentation. denied any chest pain and had nochanges consistent with ischemia on her ekg. she was continuedon aspirin and lipitor throughout the admission.2. renal: the patient has chronic renal insufficiency atbaseline. her creatinine did increase from a baseline of 2.9 to3.2. during this admission , however , remained stable after thatpoint. she continued on renally-dosed medications and actuallyrequired repletion of both potassium and magnesium despite herrenal insufficiency throughout the admission in the setting ofaggressive diuresis. her electrolytes were stable prior todischarge home. she was followed by the lch renal clinic withwhom she has had a previous conversations about the possibilityof hemodialysis in the future and she will see them shortly afterthis discharge:3. pulmonary: the patient had dyspnea on exertion and bilateralpleural effusions on her chest x-ray on admission. this was allfelt to be consistent with her heart failure. she did have nosigns or symptoms of any infectious etiology either on imaging oras a part of her clinical picture. her dyspnea on exertion andher lung exam both improved with her aggressive diuresis.4. endocrine: the patient had erratic fingersticks early in theadmission with a very low fingerstick blood glucoses in themorning initially , so her p.m. lantus dose was decreased from 18units to 16 units and the novolog sliding scale was started.on 0/12/2006 , she was noted to continue to have lower sugars inthe morning , but routinely elevated sugars in the afternoongreater than 200. she was started on q.a.c. novolog regimen.however , on this regimen , she was found 1 morning to have afingerstick blood glucose of 33 and to be hypothermic with atemperature of 94 taken rectally. this was thought to besecondary to hypoglycemia which may have progressed over severalhours prior to assessment and her temperature returned to normalat 98 after her blood glucose was aggressively repleted. it wasfelt that the patient likely had decreased metabolism of herinjected insulin in the setting of worsening renal failure , so ,her lantus was decreased in accordance with a curbsideconsultation with the diabetes management service. she will bedischarged home on a similar regimen to her home regimen simplywith a decreased lantus dose down to 12 units nightly. sheshould continue to monitor her fingerstick blood glucoses athome. we were hesitant to change the types or timing of herinsulin during this hospitalization. i left that item to befurther managed by her primary care provider after discharge:5. hematologic: the patient has a chronic normocytic anemiafelt likely to be secondary to her chronic renal insufficiency.her iron studies were rechecked on this admission and her ironstudies were also normal. she was continued on aranesp throughthis hospitalization and she is on procrit as an outpatient andshe will continue on that with further discussion with the ggvhrenal clinic after she is discharged.6. fluids , electrolytes , and nutrition: the patient was fluidrestricted to 2 liters of fluid per day p.o. and potassium andmagnesium were repleted as needed and she was maintained on acardiac diet. prophylaxis was with coumadin and nexium.discharge plan: the patient will be discharged to home with vnaservices for some home physical therapy. she will follow up withher primary care provider dr. bublitz at mhs and also with thesrrh cardiology clinic and renal clinic. she should have her inrchecked within 4-5 days after discharge and her coumadinrestarted when her inr is less than 2.5.discharge medications:1. aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.2. amiodarone 200 mg p.o. daily.3. lipitor 80 mg p.o. daily.4. folate 1 mg p.o. daily.5. lantus insulin 12 units subcutaneous nightly.6. ativan 0.5 mg p.o. t.i.d.7. metolazone 2.5 mg p.o. daily as needed for fluid retention asdirected by your physician.8. multivitamin one tablet p.o. daily.9. torsemide 100 mg p.o. q.a.m. at 50 mg p.o. q.p.m.10. vitamin b12.11. iron.12. procrit 40 , 000 units subcutaneously every other week.escription document: 6-0072111 rffocusdictated by: burrow , kennethattending: novakovich , curtdictation id 1743355d: 1/16/06t: 2/8/06[report_end]