record date: 2128-04-08name:    doherty, danielmrn:     7670238dob:     4-07-2028history of present illness: 63-year-old gentleman who presents forphysical exam.  unfortunately, he is 20 minutes late for his 30 minute appointmentand as such, our visit is somewhat curtailed.he continues to take all of his medications with good compliance.  denies nausea,vomiting, fevers, chills, chest pain or shortness of breath.  recently evaluated perdermatology and facial lesion noted to be a junctional dermal nevus.  denies chestpain, shortness of breath, abdominal pain or bloating.review of systems is otherwise negative.past medical history: current per lmr.medications:  current per lmr.allergies:  no known drug allergies.social history:  single.  lives independently at the bolingbrook senior home.  deniesthe use of tobacco, alcohol or other recreational drugs.  currently on disability. notobacco x 1 year.family history: father: coronary artery disease.physical exam:  in no acute distress.  blood pressure: 114/78.  weight is 246. pulse is 80 and regular.  heent: pupils equal, round, reactive to light .  extraocularmotions are intact.  fundoscopic exam is without nicking, hemorrhages or exudate. ears: external auditory meatus is clear.  tympanic membranes are pearly gray withgood light reflex.  neck: supple without jvd, lymphadenopathy or thyromegaly. cardiac exam: regular rate and rhythm, normal s1, s2 without murmurs, rubs orgallops.  lymph nodes: no inguinal or axillary lymphadenopathy is appreciated. abdomen: obese, nontender, no hepatosplenomegaly is noted.  skin: multipleexcoriations are noted.  multiple light brown macules are noted with punched-downappearance are noted with seborrheic keratosis.  significant yellow scaling plaquesover the face, around the ears and in the nasolabial folds consistent with seborrheicdermatitis.  unchanged in size in color, a 6 x 6 mm, flesh colored papule in the leftnasolabial fold.  assessment and plan:  (1)  63-year-old gentleman with chronic schizophrenia, stable on his current     medications.  last cholesterol was well within normal limits.  will check fasting     cholesterol and liver function tests in a follow up appointment in one month.  (2)  with regard to his skin lesions, he is now followed by dermatology and is being     treated for his seborrheic dermatitis.(3)  health care maintenance: flex sig is scheduled.  stool guaiac cards are sent.      the patient is encouraged to engage in increased exercise.  we will complete     his physical at his follow up appointment in one month.robert d. briggs, m.d.rdb/jorgenson/cline