025897906ctmc8151517048106406/11/1991 12:00:00 amdischarge summarysigneddisadmission date :06/11/1991report status :signeddischarge date :06/22/1991discharge diagnosis :metastatic cervical carcinoma .secondary diagnoses include pericardial effusion , pulmonary lymphangitic spread , and liver and spleen metastases .operations and procedures :echocardiogram times two .history of present illness :patient is a 28 year old gravida iv , para 2 with metastatic cervical cancer admitted with a question of malignant pericardial effusion .patient underwent a total abdominal hysterectomy in 02/90 for a 4x3.6x2 cm cervical mass felt to be a fibroid at vanor .pathology revealed poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix with spots of vaginal margins and metastatic squamous cell carcinoma in the cardinal ligaments with extensive lymphatic invasion .patient was felt to have stage 2b disease and post-operatively , she was treated with intracavitary and external beam radiation therapy and low dose cisplatin .on ultrasound in 02/91 , the patient was found to have bilateral cystic adnexal masses confirmed on physical examination .she underwent exploratory laparotomy and had a bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and appendectomy .pathology was negative for tumor and showed peritubal and periovarian adhesions .the patient now presents with a three to four week history of shortness of breath and a dry non-productive cough .she was evaluated by dr. mielke , a pulmonologist , who found her to be wheezing and performed pulmonary function tests which showed an fev1 of 1.1 and an fvc of 1.8 .she was admitted to weekscook university medical center with a diagnosis of possible asthma .room air arterial blood gas showed a po2 of 56 , a pco2 of 35 , and a ph of 7.52 .ekg showed sinus tachycardia at 100 and echo revealed pericardial effusion , a 10 mm pulsus paradoxus was noted , and no evidence of tamponade .given the patient 's history of cervical cancer , the pericardial effusion was felt most likely to be malignant .she was therefore transferred to the retelk county medical center for further care .past medical history :as above .past surgical history :02/90 , total abdominal hysterectomy complicated by ureteral transection with right ureteral tube placed for six weeks , stent tube placed in left ureter six weeks prior to admission for a hydronephrosis post , in 03/91 , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and appendectomy .current medications :prednisone 20 mg p.o. q.a.m. with 10 mg p.o. q.p.m. , uniphyl 400 mg p.o. q.d. , augmentin 250 p.o. t.i.d. , estrase 2 mg p.o. q.d. , ms contin 30 mg q.12h. , and morphine p.r.n.physical examination :emaciated white female in mild respiratory distress .temperature was 98.1 , heart rate 116 , blood pressure 120/68 , and room air o2 saturation was 93% .heent :dry mucous membranes and myotic pupils .neck :no lymphadenopathy .chest :few inspiratory wheezes and no rhonchi .heart :regular rate and rhythm with tachycardia and no rubs or murmur .abdomen :well healed pfannenstiel scars and no masses .pelvic :no masses .rectal :no masses and guaiac negative .extremities :no edema or cyanosis .laboratory examination :hematocrit was 40 , white count was 21 , and platelet count of 723,000 .pt and ptt were 12 and 26 .electrolytes were within normal limits , liver function tests within normal limits , and ekg showed a heart rate of 128 , axis 73 , and possible ectopic p .hospital course :the patient was admitted for a new pericardial effusion which was felt most likely to be secondary to metastatic cervical cancer .there was no evidence of tamponade .an echocardiogram was scheduled and cardiology was consulted .echocardiogram showed moderate anterior pericardial effusion of approximately 600 cc with diastolic indications of the right ventricle and low velocity paradox .cardiology did not feel that tamponade at this time was a concern and that a tap need not be performed .she continued to have pulmonary wheezing , unknown origin , without history of asthma .her steroids were tapered and pulmonary was consulted who recommended a ct scan of the chest to evaluate the lung parenchyma , induce sputum for cbc , arterial blood gas , continuing of the beta agonist inhalers , and trial of steroid inhalers .they felt it was most likely a malignant lymphangitic spread with pericardial involvement versus infectious , other cardiovascular causes , or viral bronchiolitis .she had pulmonary function tests repeated which showed an fev1 of 36% of predicted and fvc of 56% of predicted .room air arterial blood gas showed a ph of 7.45 , po2 of 63 , a pco2 of 41 , and fairly significant aa gradient .she was continued on two liters of oxygen awaiting her ct scan on 06/14 and she developed a new junctional rhythm with a question of a new rub versus murmur on examination .cardiology felt she had a rub and her pulsus was still 10 .ekg showed an ectopic low atrial p and they thought she was still stable without evidence of tamponade .she should have a follow-up echocardiogram .echocardiogram showed left ventricle at the upper limits of normal for size , low normal function , moderate to mild effusion with pericardial pressures exceeding right atrial pressures , and right ventricular pressures at various points of patient 's cycle without any change in the effusion from 06/11 .thoracic surgery was also consulted and they felt that there was no need for a pericardial window at the time .she should be continued with pulmonary oximetry testing .she underwent her ct scan .this showed lymphangitic spread of cancer in the chest , question of pulmonary nodules in the chest , pericardial effusion , multiple liver metastases , decreased function of the left kidney , dilated left intrarenal collecting system and proximal ureter , and periaortic lymphadenopathy .pulmonary felt this was consistent also with lymphangitic spread and they did not feel that a bronchoscopy would be of any assistance at this time .chemotherapy for metastatic cervical cancer was discussed with the patient and she was started on 5-fu 800 mg per meter squared days 06/18 , 06/19 , and 06/20 .she also received cisplatin 35 per meter squared on 06/19 and ifex and mesna on 06/18 .she was noted , on 06/16 , to have numerous erythematous maculopapules on her back and chest .dermatology was consulted and they felt that this was most likely steroid acne .they therefore felt a rapid steroid taper was indicated and topical erythromycin if desired by the patient .the patient 's shortness of breath and wheezing continued but without change .her cardiac examination remained the same and there continued to be no evidence of tamponade .cardiology felt that follow-up echo was indicated on 06/18 as she had another echocardiogram which showed no change or evidence of tamponade .they therefore felt that she could be continued to be followed by examination .she had some mental status changes with confusion and hallucinations on 06/18 originating from narcotics versus decreased po2 .the ifex was held as it was felt that it could have precipitated the mental status changes and that she was to receive no further ifex .she had no further hallucinations since stopping the ifex .psychiatry was also consulted to help her with the changes she was feeling since her new diagnosis .she was hooked up with support services in collot ln , dugo , indiana 68961 for further counselling and given xanax for symptoms of anxiety .she continued to have no change in her shortness of breath or cardiac examination and was discharged home on 06/22/91 after completing her 5-fu and cisplatin chemotherapy .disposition :she will be followed by dr. mielke and home care services .discharge medications :premarin 0.625 q.d. , proventil inhaler two puffs q.i.d. , beclovent four puffs b.i.d. , colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. , ms contin 30 mg p.o. t.i.d. , elavil 25 mg p.o. q.h.s. , trilisate 750 mg p.o. b.i.d. , ms elixir 100 mg p.o. q.2h. p.r.n. , robitussin with codeine 5 cc p.o. q.2h. , and home o2 two liters via nasal prong with increase to four liters as needed for symptoms p.r.n.zq233/5272 earllamarg s. mielke , m.d. rp75d :07/17/91batch :8600report :j4678a87t :07/21/91dicatated by :sonrelle louellpascgach , m.d. eh41