857888116ctmc363202476680133new years day 12:00:00 amleukemia , pnuemoia , bone marrow transplantsigneddisadmission date :new years dayreport status :signeddischarge date :01/10/2005attending :swatlleebtik , telshey md , phdidentification :mr. kotefyfe is a 65-year-old man with a history of myelodysplastic syndrome ( acute myelogenous leukemia ) who presents 20 days status post a nonmyeloablative peripheral blood stem cell transplant and is admitted for fatigue , neutropenia , and an abnormal chest x-ray .history of present illness :in january 2002 , the patient was found to be anemic .he was monitored closely and started on folic acid .in august 2002 , a bone marrow biopsy showed mds with a 12p abnormality in 14/24 metaphases .he was treated with 5-azacytidine due to increasing number of blasts .after four treatment cycles , his marrow remained hypercellular with persistent low levels of blasts .in september 2004 , the patient converted to aml with philadelphia chromosome 9:12 and received induction chemotherapy and recovered slowly with blasts .in november 2005 , a bone marrow biopsy showed 80% cellularity and 40% of the intratrabecular space was composed of aml cells .hydrea was started due to splenic pain .the patient was admitted on december 5 , 2005 for many " peripheral blood stem cell transplants . "this course was without major complications .since his discharge from the hospital one week ago , he had twin graft to stem cells .he has had only a few polys on his white blood cell differential .he has also had persistent blasts of 1 to 2% .the patient was taken off gmcsf because of splenic pain and this pain improved .he has not been febrile .he has had transfusions on several occasions .his white blood cell count and platelet count have been noted to be steadily rising over the past week .he actually looked a little bit better today than he had previously .for the past three days , he has been complaining of pain in his shoulder with motion and also a little bit of pain in his left lower quadrant .a chest x-ray obtained demonstrated a right lobe infiltrate , which was possibly fungal in etiology and the patient has been admitted for further evaluation and treatment .past medical history :aml , coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction in 1989 with stent placement , hypertension , hyperlipidemia , and scrofula in a lymph node .allergies :penicillin , which causes a rash .admission medications :atenolol 25 mg daily , folic acid , prilosec 40 mg daily , tacrolimus 2 mg q.a.m. , 1 mg q.p.m. , fluconazole ( started five days prior to admission to treat thrush ) , acyclovir 400 mg t.i.d. , mepron 750 mg b.i.d. , levaquin 500 mg daily , oxycodone 5 to 10 mg q.3h. p.r.n. for pain , and doxazosin .social history :the patient is a photographer .he is engaged and lives with his fiancee .he does not smoke , drink alcohol or use illicit drugs .review of systems :the patient reports five days of right upper extremity / axillary and posterior shoulder pain , which he describes as shooting in nature .the patient denies any radiation of pain to the right upper extremity and denies any weakness in the right upper extremity .he has had no fevers or chills .no dysuria .no congestion .he reports a minimal rare dry cough , which dates back to november 27th , which he thinks is related to gerd .he does have left upper quadrant pain , which is consistent with his previously known splenic pain .he also reports rhinorrhea with clear discharge .physical examination :temperature 97.6 , pulse rate 60 , blood pressure 138/80 , respiratory rate 20 , oxygen saturation 96% on room air .admission weight 77.6 kilograms .in general , the patient is described as tired appearing , however , comfortable , and in no acute distress .heent :oropharynx is dry .he has no lesions or bleeding .cardiovascular :regular rate and rhythm .pulmonary :crackles at the bases and decreased breath sounds .gi :abdomen is soft .he has tenderness in the left upper quadrant and he is without hepatosplenomegaly .derm is without rash .neuro :cranial nerves ii through xii are intact .he has a nonfocal exam .extremities are without edema .access :he has a left-sided double-lumen hickman , which is nontender and without induration .admission studies :sodium 135 , potassium 4.6 , chloride 99 , co2 28 , bun 13 , creatinine 0.8 , glucose 233 , alt 20 , ast of 27 , ldh 154 , alkaline phosphatase 66 , t bili 0.4 , calcium 8.1 , and magnesium 1.1 .white blood cell count 3.8 with 3% polys , 3% blasts , 7% lymphs , 87% monocytes .hematocrit 30 and platelets 23,000 .chest x-ray revealed a right upper infiltrate .chest cat scan was notable for right upper lobe consolidation and right pleural effusion .all findings consistent with pneumonia .hospitalization course :mr. lyfranklapalm kote is a 65-year-old man with a history of myelodysplastic syndrome that could vary to acute myelogenous leukemia who is status post a nonmyeloablative allogenic transplants via protocol of 27-518 , the gvax study , who was readmitted for right upper lobe infiltrate .the remainder of the dictation will be divided by system :1. oncology :the patient is status post nonmyeloablative " many allogenic bone marrow transplant on 12/12/04 .neutrophils have yet twin graft , gmcsf was stopped in a setting of increased splenic pain .throughout this admission , the patient has had a climbing level of blasts ( 44% on the day of discharge ) consistent with recurrent leukemic disease .all immunosuppressants were discontinued except for tacrolimus .tacrolimus was continued at a reduced dose to 0.5 mg daily , so that the patient could remain on the gvax study .2. id / pulmonary :admission cat scans and x-rays of the chest were notable for right upper lobe infiltrate .the patient was afebrile upon admission and remained afebrile throughout his course .infectious disease and pulmonary services were actively involved during this admission .both consultant services felt the initial imaging was consistent with focal fungal ( question aspergillus or mucor ) infiltrates .he was started empirically .he was started empirically on voriconazole .given the patient 's history of scrofula , there was mild concern for possible active tuberculosis .the patient ruled out for tb by serial sputum induction studies .a bronchoscopy was performed .washings , cultures , and viral studies were negative or remained no growth to date .cmv viral loads were all negative .serum galactomannan level on 01/01 was negative .there was consideration to do a vat procedure to obtain his definitive diagnosis , but however , in the presence of recurrent leukemic disease , the patient continued to decline this option .inpatient antibiotic and antiviral treatment included prophylactic acyclovir and mepron per protocol , empiric levaquin , empiric caspofungin , and empiric fluconazole .the patient does have thrush .3. hematology :the patient had no active bleeding during this admission .the patient was given red blood cells and platelets to maintain his hematocrit above 26 and his platelet count above 10,000 .4. cardiovascular :the patient remained hemodynamically stable throughout this admission .he had one brief episode of chest pain that was spontaneously resolved .he ruled out for myocardial infarction by serial enzymes and no further workup was pursued .5. musculoskeletal :the patient had a right middle finger pain , which developed during this admission without any preceding trauma .this pain was felt to be due to arthritis .plain film x-rays revealed no bony injury .6. psych :celexa 20 mg daily was started this admission for treatment for depression .final diagnoses :1. acute myelogenous leukemia .2. right upper lobe infiltrate , not otherwise specified , possibly infectious / fungus versus recurrence of leukemic disease .discharge plan :the patient was discharged to home with ah services .outpatient followup :the patient is scheduled to see dr. kama scpra who will be covering for dr. telshey swatlleebtik on january 14 , 2005 at 9 a.m.the patient also has appointments on that day for blood draws and for infusions if necessary .discharge medications :acyclovir 400 mg t.i.d. , atenolol 25 mg daily , peridex 15 ml b.i.d. , colace 100 mg b.i.d. , folic acid 1 mg daily , nystatin suspension 5 cc q.i.d. , oxycodone 5 to 10 mg q.4h. p.r.n. for pain , eucerin lotion apply topically q.8h. to dry skin , senna two tablets q.12h. p.r.n. for constipation , multivitamin 1 tablet daily , doxazosin 1 mg daily , tacrolimus 0.5 mg daily , mepron 750 mg b.i.d. , levofloxacin 500 mg daily , celexa 20 mg daily , voriconazole 300 mg q.12h. , prilosec 40 mg daily , and magnesium oxide 400 mg t.i.d.discharge instructions :the patient was advised to take his medications and keep his appointment as instructed .in addition , he was told to call his doctor if he had any fevers , chills , severe headache , lightheadedness , dizziness , cold or flu like symptoms , cough , shortness of breath , chest discomfort , stomach ache , nausea , vomiting , persistent loose bowel movements , pain or difficulty with his urination , bleeding , skin rash or if he is unable to take his medication for any reason .escription document :5-1834341 tmcc :telshey swatlleebtik venbonlea health sterlfreicc :telshey swatlleebtik md , phd new mexicodicatated by :koterudes , conrellieattending :swatlleebtik , telshey dictation id 5647889d :01/30/05t :01/30/05