593642342 | hsphac | 60037013 | | 3961566 | 11/7/2007 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 10/26/2007 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: telles , marcelo m.d.admitting intern:darrin strzyzewski , m.d.admitting resident:rigoberto shuford , m.d.estimated date of discharge:4/5/07 .principal diagnosis:congestive heart failure , amyloid , and pneumonia.secondary diagnoses:include hypertension , diabetes , peripheral vascular diseasestatus post left bka , status post pacemaker for sick sinussyndrome , hypercholesterolemia , pseudogout , spinal stenosis.history of present illness:this is an 88-year-old tere all war male with a history of chf withan estimated ef of 45-50% and diastolic dysfunction as well , alsowith a history of hypertension , diabetes , peripheral vasculardisease , history of a cva , history of hypercholesterolemia , whowas recently admitted to the tiesville caing hospital for a chf exacerbation.during the recent admission , his home lasix was increased from 20mg p.o. daily to 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. during the past admission , hehad a negative lower extremity ultrasounds for right leg edemaand chronic swelling and during the last admission , he wasdiuresed with lasix and discharged home on 6/28/07 .  during thetwo days prior to admission , the patient experienced increasingshortness of breath , orthopnea , and pnd. the vna who visited thepatient noted a fever of 101 fahrenheit and so the patient wentto the emergency department. in the emergency department , thepatient was afebrile , had a heart rate of 80 , blood pressure130/80s , respirations 16 satting 95% on 2-4 liters. of note , thepatient has no oxygen requirement at home at baseline. thepatient had crackles on exam. the chest x-ray showed improvedeffusions from prior but did not rule out pneumonia. his rightleg was still swollen but unchanged from prior. in the emergencyroom , he was given iv lasix 100 mg and 750 mg of levofloxacin x1.the patient was admitted to the cardiology service for volumeoverload and the question of pneumonia.home medications:tylenol p.r.n. , aspirin 81 mg every daily , diltiazem extendedrelease 120 mg daily , colace 100 mg twice daily , iron sulfate 325mg three times daily , folic acid 1 mg daily , lasix 80 mg p.o.twice daily , gabapentin 100 mg twice daily , nph insulin 20 unitssubcutaneously daily , regular insulin sliding scale , xalatan eyedrops one drop each eye q.p.m. , metoprolol 12.5 mg twice daily ,senna tablets twice daily , simvastatin 40 mg once daily.allergies:iv contrast and latex.social history:the patient is a retired cook. he is originally from e vihe has a history of past tobacco use , quit 30 years ago and inthe past drank alcohol rarely. he is wheelchair-bound atbaseline. he lives alone. vna visits him. he has threedaughters in vale , georgiafamily history:the patient notes there has been no one in his immediate familywho had an mi.physical examination on admission:vital signs: temperature of 100.0 fahrenheit , heart rate 71 ,blood pressure 116/64 satting 100% on 2 liters. his nasalcannula oxygen respirations 16.general: in no acute distress , lying bed , speaking in fullsentences.heent: op clear without erythema. the patient has dentures.pupils were equal , round and reactive. extraocular muscle wasintact.neck: no lymphadenopathy. no carotid bruits. neck was supple.jvp listed in chart as 12 cmcardiovascular: regular rate and rhythm , ii/vi systolic ejectionmurmur at the left lower sternal border.respiration: the patient had crackles half way up each lungbilaterally. there was no egophony , there was no dullness topercussion.abdomen: positive bowel sounds , soft and nontender. there was amild distention and no masses.extremities: the patient has a left bka. the right leg showed2+ pitting edema halfway up his anterior shin. his left leg hadno ulceration or lacerations and no tenderness.neuro: alert and oriented x3. cranial nerves ii through xiiintact. generally , nonfocal exam.review of systems:the patient has a minimal chest pain in the past couple of daysonly with cough , otherwise no chest pain. the patient was chestpain-free in the emergency room and there was no nausea ,vomiting , diaphoresis , palpitations , no rash , no diarrhea ,positive constipation , increased leg swelling since the lastadmission , no hematuria , no dysuria. the patient had aproductive cough of clear phlegm and no hemoptysis. the patienthad a good medication compliance.admission labs:of note on admission , the patient had a creatinine of 1.1 whichwas at his baseline. the patient had a hematocrit of 35.2. ofnote , his baseline hematocrit is between 31 and 32. bnp was 570.troponin was 0.78 , ast 62 , alt 26 , alkaline phosphatase 183 ,albumin 3.6.admission ekg was v-paced with left axis deviation , no acute st-twave changes. it was unchanged from prior. the patient was inatrial fibrillation on the ekg.admission chest x-ray from 10/30/07 , decreased size smallbilateral effusions , associated with some segmental bibasilaratelectasis versus consolidation. no frank evidence of chf.consultants:hematology of bh , dr. bradley ebanks .assessment:this is an 88-year-old co louis awestinsde male with a history ofhypertension , diabetes , chf who presented with increasingshortness of breath likely secondary to chf and also presentedwith a fever concerning for pneumonia for which he was treatedwith antibiotics. the patient also had a new diagnosis ofamyloid during this admission.hospital course by problem:1. cardiovascular:a. ischemia: the patient has no known diagnosis of cad;however , he has many risk factors. the patient had a troponin of0.7 on admit which subsequently trended down. this troponin leakwas thought to be due to demand. the patient remained chestpain-free during his entire hospital course , and had no acuteischemic issues. the patient was continued on his aspirin ,beta-blocker and statin medications.b. pump: the patient has a history of chf with an ef of 40-45%.in the past , this congestive heart failure had been presumablyattributed to ischemic for hypertensive etiology. however ,during this admission , the patient had a cardiac biopsy that waspositive for amyloid suggesting that amyloid is the causeunderlying his chf. the patient appeared mildly fluid overloadedon admission. he was successfully diuresed with 100 iv lasix forseveral days. the patient has been switched to his home dose oflasix of 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. and was euvolemic for several daysprior to his discharge. his euvolemic weight on 8/10/07 was64.5 kilograms. his discharge weight will be reported in anaddendum. during this admission , he was continued on hisbeta-blocker. his calcium channel blocker and diltiazem wasdiscontinued during this admission given his likely restrictiveheart physiology with his new diagnosis of amyloid. the patientwas started on a nitrate during this admission in order to reducepreload. as mentioned above , the patient had a catheterizationwith an endomyocardial biopsy that was positive for amyloid. apanel of other amyloid-related tests were also sent out. ofnote , serum genetic amyloid testing was pending at the time ofdischarge. of note , the patient had a serum immunofixation testthat was within normal limits. the patient had a urineimmunofixation test with a positive monoclonal spike with lambdalight chain. the patient also had a serum-free light chain assaythat was equivocal/positive. the patient also had positiveproteinuria on a spot urine. the patient also had a bone marrowbiopsy done by dr. jarred canner of momh in order to furtherdefine this subtype of amyloid that this patient has and in orderto facilitate a screening of his family members for amyloid. healso had a bone marrow biopsy given the monoclonal spike on hisurine immunofixation test.c. rhythm: the patient has a pacemaker originally put in forsick sinus syndrome. he is v-paced. the patient was discoveredto be in atrial fibrillation on this admission. on 7/9/07 , theep service changed the pacemaker setting to vvi given that thepatient was in atrial fibrillation and decreased the heart rateto the 60s-70s. the patient remained on telemetry throughout hisstay which was uneventful. the patient was also started oncoumadin for anticoagulation given his atrial fibrillation andthe diagnosis of amyloid. the patient remained subtherapeuticand on 7/11/07 , his inr was still subtherapeutic at 1.5 , and hewill most likely be discharged on coumadin 3.5 mg every eveningwhich will be adjusted as necessary at the rehabilitationfacility.2. infectious disease: the patient presented with a mild cough.the patient had a fever on admit but was afebrile after one totwo days on antibiotics. the patient had no leukocytosis.again , there was a question of pneumonia on the chest x-ray andhis clinical findings were suspicious for pneumonia. the patientreceived a five-day course of levofloxacin at 750 mg daily. thecourse of antibiotics ended on 1/27/07 .  the patient had blood ,urine and sputum cultures which were negative.3. heme: the patient has baseline anemia between hematocrit of31 and 32 which remained stable during his hospitalization. thepatient also has a baseline thrombocytopenia with platelets atapproximately 170 which remained stable throughout hishospitalization and again the patient as stated above was startedon coumadin during this admission for atrial fibrillation and foramyloid. the coumadin was slowly increased up to 3.5 mg givensubtherapeutic inr. the patient had a bone marrow biopsy done on5/10/07 as mentioned above in order to further define theamyloid ??_?? and because of the monoclonal spike on the urineimmunofixation. the final results of the bone marrow biopsy arepending.4. endocrine: the patient has a history of diabetes. at first ,he was on his home dose of nph insulin which was 20 unitssubcutaneous daily as well as an insulin sliding scale. becauseof persistent hypoglycemia , the patient's nph was reduced to 10units of nph insulin subcutaneous daily.5. fen: the patient had a low-salt diet and a 2-liter fluidrestriction and was seen by nutrition inhouse.6. renal: the patient had a creatinine of approximately 1.0which stayed stable throughout his hospitalization.7. gi: the patient has chronic lft abnormalities likelysecondary to chf; however , the etiology is uncertain.8. question restless leg syndrome: on 2/19/07 , the patient wascomplaining of myoclonic jerks of his right leg which is an oldproblem. his general exam was within normal limits. he wasgiven a trial of magnesium supplementation inhouse for this.9. low back , sacral pain: his low back pain appears to bechronic and it was treated with oxycodone successfully. thepatient also was noted to have a skin tear on his right buttockwhich showed no signs of infection and a duoderm was placed overit for wound care. the patient also had a stage i sacraldecubitus ulcer and a duoderm was placed on it for wound care andfor protection.10. prophylaxis: the patient was on dvt dose lovenox inhouseand was also on coumadin.11. physical therapy: of note , the patient has a left bka. thepatient's family brought in his prosthetic leg as well as hiswalker. physical therapy inhouse worked with the patient , and itwas determined that the patient was unsafe to go home and it wasrecommended that he go to a rehabilitation facility to which thepatient finally agreed.code status:the patient is full code. healthcare proxy is daughter , wilford a greaux . home phone number is 192-580-8846 , work number581-425-7094.discharge medications:1. tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n.2. aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.3. colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.4. ferrous sulfate 325 mg p.o. three times daily.5. folic acid 1 mg by mouth once daily.6. lasix 80 mg p.o. twice daily.7. gabapentin 100 mg by mouth b.i.d.8. insulin nph 10 units subcutaneous daily.9. combivent 2 puffs inhaled four times daily p.r.n. shortnessof breath or wheezing while the patient is recovering from hispneumonia.10. isosorbide dinitrate 20 mg p.o. three times daily.11. xalatan eye drops one drop each eye q.p.m.12. metoprolol tartrate 12.5 mg by mouth twice daily.13. oxycodone 2.5 mg by mouth every six hours p.r.n. pain.14. senna tablets two tablets by mouth twice daily.15. simvastatin 40 mg by mouth at bedtime.16. multivitamin one tablet by mouth daily.17. coumadin 3.5 mg by mouth q.p.m.medication changes made during this admission:diltiazem was discontinued. nph insulin was reduced from 20units daily to 10 units daily. a multivitamin was added.isosorbide dinitrate was added. coumadin was added.to-do list for rehab and vna:1. monitor blood pressure.2. monitor blood sugars.3. please check inr on 1/1/07 and every two to three daysthereafter and adjust the coumadin as necessary for target inr of2-3.4. please do wound care on right buttocks and sacrum ( thepatient has a skin tear on the right buttocks but no signs ofinfection , and the patient has a stage i decubitus ulcer on thesacrum ). please apply duoderm and do wound care.5. please have vna do home safety evaluation when the patientgoes home , and please continue physical therapy.follow-up appointments:the patient will follow up with his cardiologist , dr. cedric d laite , of rdh .  his office is aware that he needs anappointment in the next one to two weeks and his office will callthe patient with confirmation of this appointment. dr. petrusooffice number is 568-490-2095.continuing care plan for m.d.s:for cardiologist ,1. follow up final results of amyloid genetic test.2. follow up final results of bone marrow biopsy.3. follow up final results of the heart biopsy including specialstains.for primary care physician ,1. manage insulin regimen.2. follow low back pain which appears to be chronic.3. follow decubitus ulcer stage i.4. follow inr and adjust coumadin as needed.5. monitor lft which appear to be chronically elevated andworkup as necessary.6. question of restless leg syndrome. please reassess and treatas needed.7. monitor hematocrit and platelets.an addendum to this stat dictation will follow when the patientdischarge is confirmed including a finalized medication list fordischarge and a final discharge weight.escription document: 4-4098863 emssten telcc: omar arnstein m.d.kaihend medical centertucdictated by: bitting , jordanattending: harcourt , daledictation id 8373005d: 7/11/07t: 7/11/07