record #456788473695652 | ph | 72845618 | | 3565575 | 2/19/2004 12:00:00 am | reactive airway | signed | dis | admission date: 6/17/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/0/2004attending: brice armson m.d.chief complaint: shortness of breath.history of present illness on admission: this is a 73-year-old female with known coronary artery disease , status post cabg , nowwith chf of 30% and a long history of second hand smokeinhalation , who presented with shortness of breath. one weekprior to admission , she had had upper respiratory infectionsymptoms and with some sick contacts. one day prior toadmission , the patient began with increased shortness of breathover a 3 to 4-hour period while lying down. she came to theemergency room where she was found to be wheezing. she did nothave any chest pressure or pain , but she did have some shortnessof breath and a cough productive of white sputum. she had nowheezing , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and no change in her eatinghabits. no missed medications. she denied any pnd , doe ororthopnea , and she had not noticed increased leg edema. in theemergency department , she was given atrovent , prednisone , lasix ,albuterol nebulizers and solu-medrol as it was unknown at thetime whether or not this was a chf exacerbation or a copdexacerbation.physical examination: she was afebrile at 97.5 with a pulse of71 , blood pressure of 111/63 , and respiratory rate of 18 ,saturating 98% on 2 liters. physical examination was moresignificant for a dvd at 10 cm. heart exam was significant forgallops being absent. no s3 or s4. respiratory exam wassignificant for some wheezes , but no rales however.admission laboratory: a chem 7 was significant for hyponitremiaat 132 and a hyperkalemia at 5.4. her digoxin level wastherapeutic at 1.8. total bilirubin was 1.8. a bnp was mildlyelevated at 189. first set of enzymes were cardiac enzymes torule out mi were negative.admission medications: the patient's admission medications weredigoxin 0.25 mg daily , cozaar 50 mg b.i.d. , lipitor 80 mg daily ,coreg 12.5 mg b.i.d. , spironolactone 12.5 mg daily , aspirin 81 mgdaily , nitroglycerin p.r.n. , and lasix.allergies: included captopril , which gave her a cough.social history: she lived with family. denied any drinking andsmoking , but however did have significant second hand smokeinhalation history by her husband having been a heavy smokerduring their many years of marriage.past medical history: significant for coronary artery disease inwhich she had an acute myocardial infarction in 1995 for which astent was placed in the lad. she then had an instant v stenosisand had then a two-vessel cabg , which was the svg to the lad , andthe svg to the rca. in 1997 , she had a svg , lad stent tostenosis to then to vstent. in 1988 she had a third svg ladstent placed and an icd was placed for a low vf and presumablyarrhythmias. the cardiac risk factors include hypertension ,hyperlipidemia , and smoke inhalation history.she was admitted for shortness of breath , presumes likelysecondary to a chf or reactive airway disease precipitated by anupper respiratory tract infection.hospital course by systems:1. cardiovascular: ischemia. the patient was cycled throughthree sets of enzymes , which were all negative. the patient didnot have chest pressure or pain at any moment of herhospitalization and did not need any nitroglycerin. there wereno ekg changes. she was continued on her statin , beta blocker ,and ace inhibitor , and aspirin. cardiovascular pump. thepatient oscillated between the mildly fluid overloaded toeuvolemic. she was maintained on lasix , and did well that way.the patient received an echo on march , 2004 , which showednormal left ventricular cavity size and wall thickness withoverall systolic function being moderately in pair with ejectionfraction of 35%. there was severe hypokinesis and akinesisinvolving the mid distal septum apex and distal inferior andlateral walls , and there was also abnormal septal motionconsistent with intraventricular conduction delay. an icp wasseen to be in place and the aortic valve was mildly calcified.the left atrium was mildly enlarged. there was also moderatetricuspid regurgitation with velocity of 2.9 m/second detectingpulmonary artery systolic pressures of 33mmhg. it was determinedthat since 5/26 there had been no significant interval change.rhythm: the patient was in normal sinus rhythm with an icdplaced. there were no issues.2. pulmonary: initially when the patient was admitted with hersignificant coronary history , she was being treated like a chfexacerbation. however , despite her being relatively refractorytreatment it was decided to increase the treatments for apossible copd exacerbation. in this way , she was receivingduonebs and albuterol nebulizers 2-2 hours alternating and it wasdecided to change her from p.o. prednisone to 60 mg p.o. q.a.m.in addition , tessalon perles and guaifenesin was added. finally ,azithromycin was added so as to possibly treat any atypicalpneumonia as the patient had only some interstitial pattern onher chest x-ray , and did not have any focal area ofconsolidation.3. endocrine: when the patient was admitted , she was maintainedon her home dose regimen for diabetes mellitus. however , whenbeing admitted she was given p.o. prednisone for copdexacerbation , and therefore , had uncontrolled blood sugars.because a finger stick blood glucose and insulin sliding scaledid not fully control her blood glucose. she at one point beganto have an non-gap metabolic acidosis. anticipating possibledecay , she was started on regular lab draws and insulin drips.her gap promptly closed and the patient was , otherwise ,asymptomatic. she did not have any potassium , fluid or othercomplications. throughout she was also receiving nph insulin inthe a.m. and p.m.the patient was discharged to follow with her primary carephysician , and the patient received at home vna services.discharge medications: her discharge medications included1. nph insulin10 units in the a.m. and 4 units in the p.m.2. flovent , tessalon perles and guaifenesin.3. zocor 40 mg daily.4. coreg 12.5 mg b.i.d.5. digoxin 0.125 daily.6. cozaar 50 mg b.i.d.7. azithromycin 25 mg daily.8. lasix 20 mg p.o. daily.9. combivent inhaler.escription document: 8-3033929 issten teldictated by: lueker , dominiqueattending: josephpauline , vincenzodictation id 0251211d: 6/22/04t: 2/8/04[report_end]