record #741464042186535 | ach | 79373526 | | 8058817 | 11/5/2004 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 11/5/2004 report status: signeddischarge date:attending: yong kingston md , phdthe patient is an tuhamc patient. her primary cardiologist is dr.pegramhistory of present illness: ms. flora is a 50-year-old womanwith coronary artery disease and extensive vascular disease whopresented to the ed with worsening chest pain at rest and atbaseline has exertional chest pain. she had been experiencingincreasing chest pain of late and was referred to ct surgery forsurgical evaluation to correct her cad and ischemia. she hadbeen at an office visit on the date of admission with dr. rudiciland began to experience terrible chest pain and dr. nackereferred her to the clare taho medical center ed for an urgentevaluation. in the ed , she was noted to be afebrile with atemperature of 98 , blood pressure 91/54 , respirations 16 , andsatting 98% on 2 liters. she was noted on ekg to be in normalsinus rhythm with 2-mm st depressions in ii , iii , and avf v4through v6. she was given aspirin , morphine , metoprolol ,mucomyst , ativan , nitroglycerin and was made pain-free and wassent to the cath lab for the concern that her stent to thediagonal #1 placed 1/28/04 was no longer patent , as a cause forher unstable angina. she had been recently told that no furtherintervention was possible after her stent to the diagonal #1.past medical history: significant for coronary artery diseasestatus post cabg in 1996 , which involved lima to lad ( free ) andsvg to om1. peripheral vascular disease. status post fem-pop andfem-fem bypass in 2003. end-stage renal disease status postcadaveric renal transplant in 1987 , currently immunosuppressed.iddm , hyperlipidemia , hypertension , retinopathy , tia , lower gibleed , chronic diarrhea , cmv colitis , anemia , and bladder ca ,recent diagnosis not yet worked up.medications on admission: aspirin 81 mg , azathioprine 50 mg aday , calcium carbonate 650 mg b.i.d. , colace 150 mg b.i.d. ,lispro sliding scale , lantus , multivitamin , folate , lopressor 25mg t.i.d. , prednisone 5 mg a day , zocor 80 mg q.h.s. , plavix 75mg q. day as well as zetia 10 mg a day.allergies: sulfa , benadryl , penicillin , and compazine.social history: she lives with her husband and has two children.hospital course: on admission , ms. ameling was taken to thecardiac catheterization suite where it was found that hercircumflex was 60% , which had been 60% stenosis , now 100%stenosed. her diagonal #1 status post stent was now 100%stenosed and all other native disease and graft disease wasunchanged. her right heart cath revealed elevated fillingpressures and ptca and stent was carried out of the occludeddiagonal #1 stent as well as the lad , but she became hypotensive ,bradycardic , and developed cardiogenic shock requiring cpr andintubation. she had an ibp placed and subsequently an echo wasdone to rule out effusion and was negative , but had an apparentlylow ef. she had suspected transient decrease in flow to herseptal arteries and this likely compounded her acute myocardialinfarction. following insertion of the intraaortic balloon pump ,it was noted that she had absent pulses in her right foot , whichwas noted also to be cool to touch. she was transferred to theccu , intubated and sedated , unresponsive.physical examination: her jvp was elevated. her lungs hadcoarse breath sounds anterolaterally , but without crackles orwheezes. her heart was regular , tachycardic with a gallop and a3/6 harsh systolic murmur at the base of her heart and a 2/6holosystolic murmur radiating to the axilla. she had somewhatdecreased bowel sounds , but her belly was soft and nondistended.her bilateral lower extremities were cool with absent pulses inher feet to palpation and her right foot was mottled and wasnotably cooler without edema.laboratory data: her ck was over 100 , mb 7 , troponin 0.92 , inr0.9 , and platelets 191 , 000. she later developed acute renalfailure and dialysis was initiated on monday , wednesday , andfriday schedule. her echo showed an ef of 30% with severe mr aswell as inferoseptal and inferior akinesis. the balloon pump waseventually taken out , the dopamine drip was discontinued. shewas stabilized and extubated. she was stable for several days ,but on 9/7/04 in the evening experienced an episode of unstablevt arrest requiring shock x 1. no further defibrillation wasneeded. she stabilized after her v-tach arrest and shocking andper electrophysiology service , she was loaded with amiodarone andhas been continued on 200 mg p.o. q.6h. after being titrated offher amiodarone drip.by systems:1. cardiovascular:a. ischemia: ms. quigg has terrible coronary artery diseaseand no further intervention can be offered to her afterdiscussion with both dr. kohler 's surgical team and the epservice. she should not undergo any further catheterizations orrevascularization. she is currently on aspirin , plavix ,lopressor , and zocor. she was briefly on lipitor , but this wasdiscontinued after a bump in her lfts. she is not on an ace oran arb secondary to her acute renal failure and at the time ofthis dictation her renal function remains poor and there are noplans to restart an ace inhibitor or arb.b. pump: ms. livernoche has ischemic cardiomyopathy with severemr and she is undergoing ultrafiltration and regularly is gettingseveral liters per hemodialysis session as her blood pressuretolerates.c. rhythm: ms. mcelhiney had an episode of ischemic and unstableventricular tachycardia requiring shocking. electrophysiologyevaluated her for the possibility of an aicd placement , but thishas been deferred for now and it is unlikely that she will everhave an aicd placed , certainly not on this hospitalization. shehas been loaded with amiodarone and is currently on 800 mg a day ,split into 200 mg q.6h. p.o. and after 10 days she should bechanged to 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. this will take place on february she initially tolerated amiodarone very poorly secondaryto nausea , so her dose was titrated up gradually.c. peripheral vascular disease: ms. fassett has extensiveperipheral vascular disease and vascular surgery is following herfor a likely compartment syndrome in her right calf secondary toischemia upon insertion of intraaortic balloon pump. she ishaving the circumferences of her cath measured once or twice aday and these have not been increasing , have in fact beendecreasing. also , her creatinine kinase levels have beenfollowed as a surrogate for compartment syndrome and these havebeen decreasing and are currently normal. at the time of thisdictation , her ck was 75 down from the 10 , 000 range. she was onheparin for some time and although her cath continues to betender , the pain has improved and the function has graduallyreturned. her pulses remained poor. she had lower extremitynoninvasive dopplers to evaluate her arterial venous flow and noclot was noted in the venous circulation. there was no commentmade on the fem-fem graft , however , but no note was made of anarterial clot. she should have the circumferences of her rightcalf followed closely at the place that they are marked on theright lower extremity.2. renal: ms. barrete has acute on chronic renal failure. shewas admitted with a creatinine of 2.7 and her creatinine has beenup and down depending on the timing of her dialysis; however , sheis relatively anuric , but occasionally produces small volumes ofurine and this should be followed carefully as well. she iscontinuing on prednisone and azathioprine for her transplant andshe did have one positive ua , but this is not being treatedbecause it is difficult to assess secondary to her extremelyconcentrated urine , but should be followed if she does produceurine. this may be permanent , but it is not clear at this pointshe may be on hemodialysis indefinitely. she is on fluidrestriction per renal recommendations of 1000 cc per day intakeand her arb is being held for now.3. id: ms. helmy spiked on 6/11/04 to 101.8 and she hasbeen found to have a line infection with a positive triple-lumencatheter tip as well as positive blood cultures. she was startedon vancomycin on 0/18/04 and this is being dosed according toher vancomycin troughs , which are drawn once a day. if hertrough is near or below 15 she should be given one dose ofvancomycin and this has turned out to be approximately everyother day.4. heme: ms. kornn 's platelets have been dropping from the100s to the mid 50s since she was started on amiodarone. it isnot clear what the source is. she has had two negative hitantibodies , platelet factor iv antibodies , and her plateletsseemed to have stabilized in the high 40s , mid 50s and she is notshowing any signs of acute bleed , but this has been communicatedwith electrophysiology service who is aware of the possibilitythat amiodarone may be causing her thrombocytopenia and theamiodarone has been continued unless her thrombocytopenia worsenssignificantly. she is also on a number of other medications thatmay cause thrombocytopenia and these will be followed as well ,however , it was only the amiodarone for which the timing wascoincident with the drop in her platelets.5. pulmonary: ms. wenrich has a large right pleural effusion;it was tapped on 3/13/04 , 600 cc were removed. it was noted tobe transudative. the tap was complicated by the patient slippingoff her bed during the procedure. she was caught and did notfall , but the pleural effusion was not completely drained and shedeveloped a small hydropneumothorax. this should be followed.she also had a ct subsequently to rule out hemothorax and therewas no evidence of that. the pleural effusion is evident on herchest x-rays with underlying consolidation. there has been nocompromise , however , in her apparent pulmonary status and thisshould be followed since it will likely reaccumulate aftertapping , but if she becomes more symptomatic it should be tapped.6. ms. delperdang is on prednisone. for her diabetes , she is onnph and an insulin sliding scale.7. she experienced an increase in her lfts , her transaminasesbumped to several 100s , and her total bilirubin peaked at 1.8 ,her alkaline phosphatase also bumped , however , this may have beensecondary to the starting lipitor and this was discontinued.they have trended down since then. it is not clear exactly thesource of her increase in lfts. she has been restarted on zocorat a very low dose at 10 mg and this should be titrated up as herlfts tolerate. she was on zocor as an outpatient and we hopethat this is not a class effect and that it is not going to berelated to the dose of her zocor.8. gi: her nausea should be treated with p.r.n. ativan andzofran. she has a compazine allergy.9. code status: ms. cubeta is dnr/dni , but family does desirethat if they may help that pressures in shock can be used.escription document: 6-0148636 issten teldictated by: kessans , williamsattending: dubard , brockdictation id 6969879d: 6/18/04t: 6/18/04[report_end]