record date: 2094-04-03name:    yager, becky mrn:     0887181becky returns for follow-up of painful neuropathy.  a lot has happened since shewas seen.  she was terminated at her job working as a credit manager in december 2093.  shetherefore has been having financial problems.  she does not have enough money tobuy her medications.  she has a history of hypertension and hypercholesterolemia. she has not taken these medications for months.  she states she has been taking hernortriptyline, dilantin and percocet as previously prescribed.  when i called her fromthe waiting room today, she walked towards me, she veered, and i caught her beforeshe fell.  we then got the wheelchair and wheeled her into the room and history wastaken.  she reports being off balance for about the past month.  she has been feelingmore unsteady on her feet.  she states she has not actually fallen but has come closeto falling.  she denies any true vertigo, ringing in her ears, headaches, change inmentation, numbness, weakness or change in gait.  on review of other systems, shereports a 20 lb. weight gain over the past few months which she attributes to notworking and being at home and eating more than usual.  she also notes that she hasbegun urinating at night which she previously did not do.  she complains of excessivedry mouth.  she reports being more thirsty than usual.  physical exam:  on exam, she was her usual pleasant self.  she is alert andoriented x 3.  speech fluent without aphasia.  bp sitting 145/70.  pulse 80.  standingbp unchanged at 145/70.  pulse 80.  cranial nerve exam notable for prominentbilateral nystagmus.  otherwise intact.  on motor exam, no tremor or involuntarymovements.  no drift.  good power throughout.  fine finger movements intact. vibratory loss to the ankles.  babinski flexor bilaterally.  when she got up to stand at the end of the evaluation to leave and telling me shewas fine, she veered to the right and i again caught her.  impression:  imbalance with history of recently running out of many of hermedications though taking her chronic pain medications as previously prescribed. also notable in the history is new nocturia, increased thirst and dry mouth.  herexam is notable for prominent end-gaze nystagmus.  therefore i suspect toxicmetabolic cause.  as she will need stat lytes, blood sugar, dilantin level and toxscreen as well as cardiac evaluation, the patient was referred to promptcare er.  i will bein touch with the physicians after they see her.rowena xanders, m.d.rx/mcbride/tuckercc:  georgia xing, m.d.