715316825 | lemc | 39368889 | | 9694462 | 2/9/2004 12:00:00 am | chest pain | signed | dis | admission date: 5/4/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/14/2004attending: sid gil kijowski mdhistory of present illness: briefly , the patient is a76-year-old woman with coronary artery disease status postcoronary artery bypass graft in 1992 who was recently admittedwith non st elevation mi/congestive heart failure at which timecatheterization revealed an increased wedge with decreasedpatency in both venous grafts and a patent lima graft withcollaterals. the patient has an extensive past medical historyof hypercholesterolemia , chronic renal insufficiency , insulindependent diabetes , coronary artery disease status post multiplemi , cabg , hypertension , degenerative joint disease , cva , gout ,schizoaffective disorder , tardive dyskinesia and hypothyroidism.at her baseline she has been staying at the wrangcon ronhomar memorial hospital and onadmission was complaining of chest pressure since waking , similarto the pressure she felt during a prior admission. she had acertain amount of shortness of breath , some nausea , two episodesof vomiting and her symptoms were not responsive to nitroglycerintablets at the harpa vensports center the patient came to the ter health emergency department where she reported that herchest pressure had resolved. she was treated with iv tng. inthe emergency department she was also treated with lopressor ,aspirin , iv trinitroglycerin and was heparinized. the patientthen pulled out the lines. her admission vitals were significantfor a blood pressure of 180/90. the patient had a heart rate of86 , was afebrile and was breathing at 100% at 2 liters. she hadan elevated jvp , had clear sounding lungs , trace edema and at theleft upper sternal border and left lower sternal border asystolic ejection murmur ii-iii/vi was heard with s1 and s2.admission labs were significant for an elevated creatinine of2.0. cardiac enzymes were negative. the patient had elevatedplatelets from a baseline of 30 to 80 to 673 on admission , awhite count of 9.3 , hematocrit of 35. ekg was notable for a q3which had been seen on a prior ekg. t-wave inversions also seenon a prior ekg. the patient had an echo on 7/4 which showedconcentric lvh with an ef of 30-35% , posterolateral and inferiorakinesis was also seen. a calcified aortic valve with trace aiand mild mr was seen. on 10/19 , the patient had catheterizationwhich showed that her circulation was right dominant with an lad90% and 100% lesions , left circumflex with 100% lesion , rca with100% lesions. she had an svg to pda graft with 100% lesion , svgto circumflex graft with 85% lesion stented to 10% at that time.she had a lima to lad graft which was patent , and she had lots ofcollaterals. the right heart cath was significant for a wedge of39 and a pa of 75/34 and right atrial pressure of 14 and acardiac index of 1.7.hospital course: by system ,1. ischemia: the patient was initially treated with aspirin ,beta blockers , statin , plavix , heparinized and was ruled out withenzymes. on the first day of hospitalizations , the patient'sheparin was stopped , the patient's iv trinitroglycerin wasstopped as well. the patient was started on nadolol and thatdose was increased to 80 q.day which the patient tolerated welland seemed to control the patient's blood pressure and heart ratereasonably well. the patient's attending felt that the patientwas a poor candidate for catheterization and other interventionsand would not benefit significantly from it. the symptoms thepatient was having was similar she was having during a priorhospitalization which had ended just two days before thisadmission. it was felt that her nausea , vomiting and chestpressure were probably noncardiac in nature. the only change inthe patient's cardiac medications at the time of discharge is anincrease in nadolol to 80 mg q.day.rhythm: the patient's rhythm was monitored on telemetry for mostof her stay during this hospitalization. significant events werenot observed.pump: the patient was continued at her regular dose ofoutpatient medications which seemed to be effective. the patienthad multiple complaints of chest pain/pressure during herhospitalization which resulted in periodic examinations and ekgs.all of these workups were negative.2. gi: on 10/26 it was noted that the patient had an increasedwhite count of 16 , 000. also on exam on that day it was notedthat the patient had marked right upper quadrant abdominaltenderness and fullness. she was not tender anywhere else in herabdomen. abdominal exam was also significant for a central massrepresenting an umbilical hernia. at that time , general surgeryconsult was called. lipase and amylase were sent off. they werenegative. liver function tests were also in the normal range atthat time. surgery felt that the patient was a poor surgicalcandidate given her comorbidities at that time but did recommenda cholecystectomy in the future. they recommended initialantibiotic course of amp , levo and flagyl which she was startedon. they also recommended making the patient npo treated herwith pepcid and giving her adequate iv hydration. the majorintervention they suggested was a cholecystectomy tube byinterventional radiology which was placed on the night of3/16/04. on 9/24 , the patient's white count was down to 10 witha tmax of 100 , and at the time of discharge the patient had awhite count in the normal range around 7 and was also afebrile.surgery followed the patient during her stay in the hospital asdid interventional radiology. bile was sent out for culturewhich showed yeast as well as a gram stain which showed grampositive cocci. the patient's antibiotics were switched tovancomycin , levo and flagyl. initially the vancomycin and flagylwere given iv and the levo was given p.o. one day prior todischarge , the patient's flagyl was switched to p.o. and on theday of discharge the vancomycin was stopped after the patient hadreceived seven days of vancomycin. the patient will bedischarged on flagyl p.o. and levo p.o. the patient was alsostarted no fluconazole 100 to treat the yeast that was noted inher bile cultures. the ir drain will need to be in the patient'sgallbladder for a minimum of six weeks or until the patient hasher elective cholecystectomy which will be scheduled at a laterdate.3. id: the patient is colonized with mrsa and appropriateprecautions were taken and the patient was also noted to have aninfection in her gallbladder and was treated for it as such.4. pain: the patient was treated for abdominal pain during herstay in the hospital with demerol and also with morphine.5. psychiatry: the patient was seen by psychiatry on admissionto help manage her agitation and delirium. they did apreliminary assessment of the patient. the patient did showcertain signs of agitation and multiple code grays had to becalled on the patient for difficult behavior , though the patientwas never in danger of truly hurting herself or others.admission diagnosis: cardiac chest pain.discharge diagnosis: cholecystitis now resolved.medications on discharge: asa 325 , colace 100 b.i.d. , lasix 80b.i.d. , insulin sliding scale , levoxyl 175 , nadolol 80 , lipitor80 q.h.s. , lantis 18 units , diovan 80 , levofloxacin 500 every 24hours to complete a 14 day course , fluconazole 100 to complete a14 day course , flagyl 500 t.i.d. to complete a 14 day course ,plavix 75 , famotidine 20 b.i.d. , iron 325 q.day.escription document: 0-5350071 dbssten telcc: markus scrogham m.d.ca xand roclearrisdictated by: hogon , cletusattending: reynoso , sonny ronnydictation id 6696435d: 10/18/04t: 10/18/04