356856554 | jh | 40271494 | | 7185197 | 10/16/2003 12:00:00 am | renal failure | signed | dis | admission date: 10/16/2003 report status: signeddischarge date: 8/17/2003attending: dale ned savitch mdattending physician on admission:emmitt marc guier , m.d.attending physician on discharge:marco mccaster , m.d.chief complaint:mr. gramby is a 43-year-old man with morbid obesity , type iidiabetes , hypertension , hyperlipidemia , chronic renalinsufficiency , and severe peripheral arterial disease status postfemoral popliteal bypass in september which was complicated by repeatedreturn of cellulitis x 2 who was admitted with cellulitis andvolume overload.history of present illness:the patient has had two wound complications after his femoralpopliteal bypass requiring two separate incisions and drainagesincluding courses of intravenous nafcillin x 4 weeks and withvancomycin x 4 weeks. he had been seen by vascular surgery fivedays prior to admission and had been started on dicloxacillin fora third episode of cellulitis. he had also presented with fluidoverload and spironolactone was added to his diuretic regimen.his primary care provider saw him the day prior to admission , andthe patient reported a recent fall and the primary care physicianrecommended admission to the hospital. the patient does reportsome fever and shaking chills and decreased appetite. also ,reported weakness in bilateral lower extremities and right footpain. he has chronic loss of sensation in both feet.past medical history:morbid obesity , type ii diabetes , chronic renal insufficiencywith a baseline creatinine of 2-2.5 , dyslipidemia , hypertension ,coronary artery disease , peripheral vascular disease , anemia ,history of deep vein thrombosis , obstructive sleep apnea , angerdisorder , peptic ulcer disease , and tinea pedis.medications on admission:atenolol 100 mg q.d. , spironolactone , torsemide 160 mg b.i.d. ,hyzaar 50/12.5 q. day , lisinopril 60 mg q. day , neurontin 1200 mgt.i.d. , norvasc 10 mg q.a.m. and 5 mg q.p.m. , coumadin 8 mg ,aspirin , humalog sliding scale , percocet , pletal 100 mg b.i.d. ,procrit , zantac , nitroglycerin p.r.n. , and nph 80 q.a.m. andq.p.m.physical examination:on physical exam , the patient was afebrile and had a temperatureof 99 , a heart rate of 70 , blood pressure 200/79 possibly takenwith an undersized cuff , 18 and 99% on room air. he is obese andcomfortable man in bed and in no acute distress. his jvp couldnot be assessed from the size of his neck. heart sounds weredistant. chest was clear. his abdomen is obese with bowelsounds , nontender , and nondistended. extremities: notable for 3+edema , and including 1+ extending to the groin. his pulses weredopplerable bilaterally with a triphasic wave on the right andbiphasic on the left. the medial aspect of his right leg had asurgical scar. a healed annular burn wound in the medial kneeand an area of erythema along the scar with warmth , moderatetenderness , no fluctuance and minimal induration , no discharge.the diameter of his right leg was greater than his left. hisright heel had an intact ??blough?? and his left heel had a drypressure sore. his right big toe was tender to palpation.laboratory studies:labs were notable for a creatinine of 3.4 and an inr of 7.1. hisekg showed normal sinus rhythm at 75.hospital course by problems:problem #1. infectious disease: the patient was started onvancomycin iv on admission for his right medial thigh cellulitisat the site of the femoropopliteal bypass with rapiddefervescence and improvement. no drainage , no fluctuance.additional antibiotic coverage was added specifically offluoroquinolone for anti-psuedomonal coverage for his diabeticfoot ulcers. the right heel also looked increasingly purulentduring his hospitalization and bilateral foot plain films weredone. these were negative for osteomyelitis but showed a metalsliver in the right foot and an acute fracture of the firstmetatarsal. surgical debridement was done in the operating roomwith drainage of pus , but the metal showed could not be locatedeven with fluoroscopy. the patient will complete a 14-day courseof levofloxacin and clindamycin for these foot ulcers , and willbe discharged home with visiting nursing care for b.i.d.wet-to-dry dressing changes. he will follow up with jerold cristopher blazon , m.d. in one to two weeks.problem #2. renal: the patient was volume overloaded onadmission. his torsemide was changed to iv and metolazone wasadded and was given 30 minutes prior to his first torsemide doseof the day. a diuresis of 1.5-2 liters a day was achieved withthis regimen with the exception of a 4 liter diuresis overnighton the first day of admission. his electrolytes were replaced asneeded. i have expected his creatinine increase to 4.5 bydischarge. he will need close renal follow ups as he may beapproaching need for dialysis. the renal service followed himduring this hospitalization and at their recommendation ,spironolactone will be discontinued upon discharge since hisdiuresis will be slowed.problem #3. vascular: diuresis was essential for resolution ofhis cellulitis. pletal was continued and because of his severeperipheral arterial disease , he will require excellent wound careto optimize healing.problem #4. heme: initially , his coumadin was held for asupratherapeutic inr. this was restarted when his inr was 2.2and he his now in the therapeutic range and will need to befollowed.problem #5. cardiovascular: he was hypertensive on arrivalwhich was treated with hydralazine initially and transitioned tohis p.o. home medicines. even with a large cuff , his bloodpressure continued to run high in the 150s-180s. on hospital day#9 , hydralazine p.o. was added with good effect which lowered hissystolic blood pressure to the range of the 120s-130s. goal isbelow 130/80.problem #6. endocrine: the patient was admitted with nph andhumalog. the diabetes service saw the patient and at theirrecommendation nph doses were increased , and he is now on 90units in the morning and 85 units at night. the goal for thispatient is below 150 particularly given the need for woundhealing.problem #7: gi: the patient was seen by nutrition and will beevaluated as an outpatient by bariatric surgery pending nextweek. this is of utmost importance for this patient withlife-threatening morbid obesity who already has severecomplications of obesity-related conditions. the patient hasobesity , hyperventilation syndrome.problem #8. pulmonary: the patient has obstructive sleep apnea.a cpap machine was brought to the patient bedside , but thepatient was unable to tolerate the nose mask. he will use hisown device when he returns home.discharge instructions:he will go home with visiting nurse care and will need to see hisnephrologist , vascular surgeons , primary care provider , andbariatric surgery following discharge.escription document: 3-5081947 emssten teldictated by: greiber , jordonattending: bartosik , rick armanddictation id 3091355d: 8/7/03t: 8/7/03