868276463 | ch | 49907736 | | 0475555 | 10/4/2006 12:00:00 am | asthma | signed | dis | admission date: 10/4/2006 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/16/2006attending: westphal , lance m.d.service:kh team.primary care physician:dr. lucius rathmannerprincipal diagnosis for admission:asthma exacerbation.list of problems during hospitalization:1. asthma exacerbation.2. diabetes mellitus.3. iron deficiency anemia.history of present illness:this is a 38-year-old female with a history of asthma , type iidiabetes mellitus , obesity , depression , and iron deficiencyanemia who presented to erta memorial hospital on 3/9/06complaining of worsening shortness of breath and chest tightnessover the past three days after running out of her asthmamedications approximately two weeks ago. the patient had ran outof her advair , albuterol , and singulair as well as her lasix.she denied any fevers or chills , no nausea , vomiting , diarrhea ,chest pain , or cough. she did report some increased lowerextremity edema over the past several days and admits to nottaking her lasix. she went to sworthlate university medical center urgernt care on the day of admission and wasfound to have an oxygen saturation of 84% on room air and she wassent to the emergency room for admission. in the ed , shereceived nebulizer treatments and prednisone 60 mg x1 and her o2saturation improved to 95% on 2 liters.home medications:the patient takes advair 500/50 b.i.d. , albuterol nebulizersq.4h. p.r.n. , iron 325 mg t.i.d. , glyburide 2.5 mg daily , lasix40 mg p.o. daily , lisinopril 2.5 mg p.o. daily , metformin 850 mgb.i.d. , prozac 40 mg daily , singulair 10 mg daily , and amultivitamin daily.allergies:the patient has no known drug allergies.review of systems:pertinent for shortness of breath and chest tightness.physical examination on admission:exam on admission , patient was afebrile. her pulse was 100 ,blood pressure 116/70 , respiratory rate 22 , and o2 saturation of95% on 2 liters. the patient was awake , alert and oriented x3and in no apparent distress. her lungs had scattered wheezingbilaterally with good air movement. heart with normal s1 , s2 andtachycardic. abdomen is obese , soft , nondistended , nontender.extremities had 1+ bilateral pitting edema and mild erythema ofher bilateral shins.pertinent laboratory data on admission:white blood cell count was 10.6 and hematocrit 30. chest x-rayshowed a large cardiac silhouette with no evidence of effusion orinfiltrate. the patient had a pe protocol ct which was asuboptimal study due to poor body habitus but it was negative forpe , it did show bilateral ground glass opacities and evidence ofair trapping. it also showed moderate hepatomegaly.procedures during hospitalization:the patient had a pect and she also had pulmonary function testsperformed.hospital course by problem:this is a 38-year-old female with asthma , diabetes , anemia , andmorbid obesity who was admitted with his asthma exacerbation inthe setting of running out of her medications at home.1. pulmonary: the patient was started on prednisone 60 mg p.o.daily and remained on it for approximately seven days. it wasdifficult to taper her prednisone due to oxygen desaturationswith ambulation. the patient's oxygen desaturated to 74-84% withambulation. the patient , however , was tapered and is currentlyon 50 mg daily , of prednisone and will be sent out on a seven-daytaper. she was also continued on her advair and singulair. asmentioned above , she had a pe protocol ct that showed no pe.however , it was a suboptimal study due to patient's body habitus.it did show ground glass opacities. because the patient haddesaturations with ambulation , it was concerned that the patientpossibly had an atypical pneumonia given these ground glassopacities. she was started on levofloxacin and should complete afive-day course. the patient was also tested for hiv which wasnegative. she had a bnp to rule out any evidence of volumeoverload that was contributing to her oxygen desaturations. bnpwas 5. the patient also had hepatitis serologies due tohepatomegaly seen on pect and these were negative as well.influenza swabs were negative. the patient was seen in consultby the pulmonary team and they felt that the patient requireedhome oxygen especially at night and with ambulation. thepatient's o2 saturation while sleeping was 84%. it is highlysuspected that the patient has a component of sleep apnea and sheis to be set up for an outpatient sleep study. pulmonary alsorecommended obtaining a pulmonary function test. these were doneand it showed an fvc of 51% and an fev1 of 49% and an fev-fvcratio of 97% as well as a total lung capacity of 53% and a dlcoof 82%. pulmonary function tests were consistent withrestrictive disease and this is likely due to patient's obesity.the patient most likely has obesity hypoventilation. we spokewith her in depth about the importance of losing weight to helpimprove her respiratory status as well as her overall health.the patient is scheduled to have an outpatient sleep study andshe is also to follow up with her outpatient pulmonologist , dr.dworaczyk home oxygen was set up for the patient as well.2. cardiovascular: the patient was continued on her lisinopriland her lasix was resumed for her lower extremity edema. thisdid improve throughout her hospitalization. a lipid panel waschecked and this was in the normal range. the patient should bestarted on aspirin given her diabetes and her hypertension.however , she has been experienced menorrhagia and is anemic sothe aspirin should be started as an outpatient after hermenorrhagia is addressed.3. hematology: the patient was found to be iron deficient bylabs and she was continued on iron supplements three times a day.the patient also complains of heavy menstruation and she has ahistory of uterine fibroids , she was supposed to follow up withgyn as an outpatient but missed her appointment. she wasinstructed to follow up with gyn.4. endocrine: the patient's home medications of glyburide andmetformin were held and she was placed on nph 25 units b.i.d.with a novolog sliding scale and 12 units q.a.c. her hemoglobina1c was 7. she was resumed on her home regimen at discharge.5. prophylaxis: the patient received lovenox and nexium forprophylaxis.physical examination at discharge:the patient was awake , alert , oriented x3. she is 95% on roomair at rest but did continue to desaturate into the 80s withambulation. she is awake , alert , oriented x3. her lungs wereclear bilaterally. there were no other pertinent findings onexam at discharge.consultants during hospitalization:pulmonary was dr. koeppldischarge medications:the patient was sent home on albuterol inhaler two puffs q.i.d. ,ferrous sulfate 325 mg p.o. b.i.d. , prozac 40 mg p.o. daily ,advair diskus 500/50 one puff b.i.d. , lasix 40 mg p.o. daily ,glyburide 2.5 mg p.o. daily , levaquin 750 mg p.o. daily , x1 moredose , lisinopril 2.5 mg p.o. daily , metformin 850 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,singulair 10 mg p.o. daily , nexium 40 mg p.o. daily , and aprednisone taper 40 mg daily x2 days , then 30 mg daily x2 days ,then 20 mg daily x2 days , then 10 mg daily x2 days , then stoppingit and multivitamin one tablet daily.instructions on discharge:the patient was encouraged to follow up with gyn as an outpatientregarding her uterine fibroids and menorrhagia. a follow-upappointment was scheduled with both her primary care physicianand dr. saneaux in february she met with nutrition during thehospitalization and had a long conversation with the medical teamregarding weight loss strategies.advance directives:the patient is a full code.escription document: 4-8182418 emssten teldictated by: arcia , rickieattending: caughran , briandictation id 3358104d: 2/27/06t: 2/27/06