465093381 | descmh | 64572761 | | 105004 | 2/6/2001 12:00:00 am | arrythmia | signed | dis | admission date: 11/9/2001 report status: signeddischarge date: 3/16/2001history of present illness: the patient is a 52-year-old femalewith a history of lupus , hypertension ,asthma , breast cancer status post mastectomy and chemotherapy ,rheumatic heart disease and atrial fibrillation who was foundpauses of up to 6.6 seconds on a holter monitor and was admittedfor consideration of pacer placement. the patient states that overthe last several months since october , 2001 , she has notedincreasing dyspnea on exertion and decreased exercise tolerance.she also has noticed episodes of palpitation. she presented to herprimary care physician in october , 2001 with these complaints. heput a holter monitor on her 10/1/01 which showed her to haveparoxysmal atrial fibrillation with rates between 67 and 214 with amean rate of 117 beats per minute. her primary care physician , dr.esmond , initially put the patient on digoxin and coumadin. herrate remained elevated , however , so he changed the coumadin tocardizem. about one month ago he also added propafenone 150 mgp.o. t.i.d. on 10/5 she presented to her cardiologist , dr.cowser , complaining of continued palpitations and ankle edema.he stopped her cardizem at that time as he felt that was what wascontributing to her lower extremity edema and placed her onatenolol 25 mg p.o.q.d. instead. she had a leepy holter monitorplaced from 8/29/23. wednesday morning , her second day ofatenolol , she noted having episodes where "i felt my heart pauseand then surge when it started to beat again". this was associatedwith lightheadedness x several seconds. she did not have anyassociated chest pain , shortness of breath , nausea and vomiting ,diaphoresis or syncope. she called dr. cedotal on 6/16 and hetold her to stop her atenolol and continue her propafenone. overthe last two days she has had flutter episodes of irregular heartbeat but has had no lightheadedness since stopping the atenolol onwednesday. she has noted increased shortness of breath over thelast couple of days , as well , on climbing one flight of stairs.she also has orthopnea using two pillows at night , does not havepnd , does have lower extremity edema. on the day of admissionwhich was 10/25/01 dr. mcferrin received a transmitted holter recordingfrom viewden medical center that showed the patient had normal sinus rhythm withepisodes of atrial fibrillation with high rates but also that shehad episodes of 6.6 second pauses. thus , she called the patientand had her sent via ambulance to the cole general healthemergency department for consideration of admission for pacemakerplacement. in the emergency department the patient's vitals wereshe was afebrile with a pulse of 112 , blood pressure 150/81 ,breathing 18 , satting 95% on room air. her review of systems wasnegative for fever , chills , or sweats , chest pain , syncope ,abdominal pain , nausea and vomiting , diarrhea , dysuria or rash. inthe emergency department she revealed 40 of iv lasix and was sentto the floor.physical examination: general: she is a 52-year-old femaleresting comfortably at 45 degrees , in noacute distress. heent: pupils equal , round and reactive to lightand accommodation. oropharynx revealed moist mucous membranes , noerythema. neck veins appeared to be around 10 cm. chest:wheezing bilaterally and crackles at both bases. cardiovascular:regular rate and rhythm , normal s1s2 , did have an s4 and did have a3/6 holosystolic murmur loudest at the apex to the axilla. shealso had a 1/6 diastolic decrescendo murmur at the left uppersternal border. abdomen: soft , nontender , nondistended , with goodbowel sounds. extremities: warm , well perfused. she did have 2+lower extremity edema.laboratory data: on admission. sodium 146 , potassium 3.6 ,chloride 117 , bicarb 19 , bun 15 , creatinine 0.9 ,glucose 120 , ck 76 , troponin 0 , cbc showed a white count of 8.73 ,hematocrit 29.1 which was around her baseline. her baseline hadbeen 30-38 on the last admission. her platelets were 289. esr was75 which is what it had been in july . inr was 3.1chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly and pulmonary vascularredistribution. electrocardiogram showed a normal sinus rhythm at94 with a normal axis , normal intervals. she did have left atrialenlargement as well as right atrial enlargement. her last echodone at mh on 10/13/01 showed an ejection fraction of 63% ,concentric left ventricular hypertrophy , lv systolic functionpreserved , a thickened mitral valve , moderate to severe mitralregurgitation plus left atrial enlargement , aortic valve thickened ,mild ai , no as. moderate tricuspid regurgitation , moderatelyincreased pulmonary artery pressures , normal rv plus her atrialenlargement and they made notes that the mitral regurgitation wasincreased on this echo when compared with an echo done one yearprior at bktmc .past medical history: 1. breast cancer status post leftmastectomy with lymph node dissectionin 5/1 pathology revealed invasiveductal carcinoma , grade 3/3 , nodenegative. she is status post fourcycles of adriamycin and cytoxan.2. history of lupus x 21 years.3. history of rheumatic heart disease.4. history of hypertension.5. history of asthma diagnosed three yearsago.6. history of recent atrial fibrillation.medications on admission: lisinopril 40 q.d.; prednisone 10 q.d.;coumadin 5 q.d.; prevacid 30 q.d.;chloroquine 100 q.d.; plaquenil 200 b.i.d.; lasix 20 q.d.;albuterol inhaler p.r.n.; flovent 220 2-3 puffs b.i.d.; flonaseb.i.d.; propafenone 150 t.i.d.allergies: tetracycline which give her nausea and vomitingand sometimes she got that with aspirin.social history: she is a nurse currently on a medical leave ofabsence. she lives alone. tobacco history shedoes smoke 1 pack per day since she was 23. no ethanol.family history: brother with sarcoid plus a history ofhypertension. father with prostate cancer.hospital course: 1 ) cardiovascular: from an ischemia standpointshe ruled out for a myocardial infarction. wedid continue her antihypertensive regimen of lisinopril 40 q.d.from a pump standpoint we felt that perhaps her mitralregurgitation was the main cause of her 2-3 month history ofincreasing dyspnea on exertion , exercise intolerance , andincreasing orthopnea. thus , we got a repeat echo which showedborderline left ventricular hypertrophy with an estimated ejectionfraction of 55% , normal rv. the mitral valve was moderatelythickened and rheumatic in appearance. the mitral valve area wasestimated at 1.3 cm squared although this may have an underestimate. there is severe mitral regurgitation and moderate leftatrial enlargement. the aortic valve was calcified. there wasmild aortic insufficiency. there was mild tricuspid regurgitationwith a regurgitant velocity of 3.5 consistent with mild elevationin pulmonary systolic pressures of approximately 48 mmhg plus rightatrial pressure. given her severe and symptomatic mitralregurgitation we then decided that she would likely benefit from amitral valve replacement. then we proceeded to cardiaccatheterization. her left heart catheterization showed a leftdominant system with clean coronary arteries. her right heartcatheterization revealed elevated right ventricular and pulmonaryartery pressures and elevated pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of31. she was diuresed several kg from her admission weight with ivlasix and she was continued on her ace inhibitor for afterloadreduction. consultation with dr. mazingo of cardiothoracic surgerywas obtained and he felt that patient would indeed benefit greatlyfrom an mvr. thus , plan was made for patient to be discharged homeand then to be readmitted electively when dr. brocks returned fromvacation for an mvr. from a rate and rhythm standpoint , thepatient was in normal sinus rhythm for the majority of her hospitalstay. we continued her propafenone and coumadin for her history ofatrial fibrillation and she did have excellent rate control onthis. she had no further pauses on telemetry during hospital stayand thus it was felt that given she was asymptomatic and did nothave any pauses off of beta blockade , that she did not needpacemaker placement on this admission.2 ) pulmonary: from a pulmonary standpoint we felt that likely shehad cardiac asthma as with diuresis her wheezing and shortness ofbreath was nearly 100% improved.3 ) rheumatology: from a rheumatologic standpoint her lupus was ingood control. she did not have of her typical lupus flare symptomssuch as arthralgias or rash , fever and , thus , we continued her onher plaquenil , her chloroquine and her prednisone.4 ) renal: she did not appear to have any renal involvement of herlupus and her renal function was within normal limits throughouther stay.5 ) heme: she had a normal cytic anemia at 29 which was within herbaseline range of 29-38. full iron studies were sent and it wasfelt that it was most likely consistent with anemia of chronicdisease.6 ) prophylaxis: from a prophylaxis standpoint she was on coumadinfor atrial fibrillation so was not considered for heparin and shewas continued on prilosec throughout her stay.discharge medications: plaquenil 200 mg p.o. b.i.d.; lisinopril 40mg p.o.q.d.; magnesium gluconate 2 gramsp.o. b.i.d.; prednisone 10 mg p.o. q. a.m.; propafenone 225 mg p.o.t.i.d.; coumadin 5 mg p.o.q.d.; k-dur 60 meq p.o.q.d.; flovent 220mg inhaled b.i.d.; flonase 2 sprays nasally q.d. for her allergiesand postnasal drip; prevacid 30 mg p.o.q.d.; chloroquine 100 mgp.o.q.d.; lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d.followup: she had an appointment to follow up with dr. flectherin one week's time and to follow up with dr. druvenga intwo weeks' time when he returned from vacation. at that time wouldthen follow up with an elective admission for mvr.dictated by: carlo finnicum , m.d. by60attending: timmy gregg kossakowski , m.d. ay1gi185/303022batch: 04935 index no. nnsztm4xxq d: 1/1/01t: 6/26/01