868777179 | cmh | 38188751 | | 809701 | 3/11/1993 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 3/30/1993 report status: signeddischarge date: 2/24/1993bipids serviceprincipal diagnosis: presyncope.history of the present illness: this is a 56 year old black femalewith coronary artery disease ,status post three myocardial infarctions and a coronary arterybypass graft between the years of 1973 and 1984 , who now came intothe hospital with back pain and one episode of dizziness with aracing heart. her cardiac history begins in 1973 when she had herfirst myocardial infarction. she has had two more in 1983 and in1984. she had a coronary artery bypass graft in 1984 in which herlima was placed to her lad , and the saphenous vein graft placed toher obtuse marginal and the diagonal branch. the coronary arterybypass graft in 1984 was very successful , and she has been stablesince that time without angina or congestive heart failuresymptoms. she reports that she had a negative exercise tolerancetest one year ago , holter two to three years ago was reportedlynormal also. the only time the patient recalls having a racingheart prior to the day of admission was when her brother died twoyears ago.on the day of admission , the patient awoke with a dull ,nonradiating pain between her shoulder blades that remained untilthe patient was given 02 in the emergency ward which wasapproximately 12 hours after awakening. the patient was never withthis pain before the day of admission. in additional , as thepatient was walking down the street near her home on the morning ofthe day of admission , she felt herself stagger , and the worldseemed to rotate around her. she sat down for about 10 minutesuntil the spell passed. during this episode , her back pain did notchange in quality or intensity. she had no chest pain , shortnessof breath , nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis , loss of consciousness ,trauma , headache , neck stiffness , blurry vision , paroxysmalnocturnal dyspnea , or orthopnea. she does report an accompanyingracing heart that seemed regular. after this episode , the patientdrove herself to the georgeb.sonhan hospital emergency wardfor evaluation.review of systems: the patient had menopause at 42 years of age.she has never had a mammogram or regular breast exams. the rest ofher review of systems was noncontributory. past medical history:coronary artery disease , status post coronary artery bypass graftin 1984 as reported in the history of the present illness. she hashad hypertension for ten years. an echocardiogram in 3/27 showedleft ventricular enlargement , inferior apicokinesis , lateralhypokinesis , and 1+ mitral regurgitation. allergies: topenicillin which leads to anaphylaxis. medications on admission:were only isordil and cardizem. the patient has a 15 pack-yearhistory of smoking. she quit two months ago. she does not drinkalcohol or abuse iv drugs. she lives alone and is unemployed as anunemployed lpn , and has one child.physical examination: she was a well developed well nourishedblack female very anxious and teary eyed.blood pressure on admission was 180/90 in the right arm and 180/95in the left arm , pulses were equal at 72. she was afebrile at98.7 , and respirations of 20. she was not orthostatic. the skinwas warm and dry. there were no rashes or bleeding. heent examwas benign. the neck was supple , positive jugular venousdistention at about 10 cm , but no coronary artery bruits. thelungs were clear. the back was without costovertebral angletenderness or spinal tenderness. cardiovascular exam: regularrate and rhythm with an s3 and a palpable s4 , with a holosystolicmurmur at the apex and a systolic ejection murmur at the left lowersternal border. no radiation of either murmur. her pmi wasdiffuse with a sternal heave. abdominal exam was benign.extremities were benign. pulses: femoral on the left with abruit , and 2+ femoral on the right without a bruit , and 1+. therest of the pulses were 1-2+ bilaterally. no renal artery bruitswere heard. neurologically , the patient was alert and oriented ,and her exam was nonfocal.laboratory data: on admission showed a normal sma-7. herhematocrit was 41.5 with a low mcv at 78.7 , lowmch at 31.3 , and a rdw of 16.1. the patient ruled out for amyocardial infarction with normal ck's. her chest x-ray showed aglobular heart , question of some cardiomegaly , clearly postcoronary artery bypass graft with lots of clips. she had rightatrial enlargement with loss of the retrosternal air space , but noevidence of aortic widening of the mediastinum. no pulmonaryedema , no pulmonary vascular redistribution was detected. ekgshowed normal sinus rhythm at 80 with a pr interval of .14 , qrs.11 , and a qt of .45. she had left atrial enlargement , old lateralt-wave inversions as well as inferior t-wave inversions. thepatient had no acute changes.hospital course: involved placing the patient on a cardiacmonitor , rule her out for an myocardialinfarction , obtaining exercise stress test , echocardiogram , drawingblood for thyroid function tests , vma's , metanephrines in theurine. in addition , a beta blocker was added to her hypertensiveregimen , and she was started on an aspirin a day. her cardiacmonitor demonstrated no dysrhythmias except for a few pvc's. theresults of the 24 hour holter on discharge were still pending. sheruled out for a myocardial infarction. an exercise stress testshowed that the patient went 5 minutes and 45 seconds on a standardbruce protocol , no ischemic symptoms , stopped due to leg pains.ekg was with 1 mm upsloping st depressions in v4 and v5. it wasreportedly consistent with but not diagnostic of ischemia. becauseof this , the patient should probably have an exercise mibi on theoutside as an outpatient. an echocardiogram demonstrated anejection fraction of 45-50% , severe hypokinesis of theanterolateral and posterior wall , akinesis of the inferior wall ,2-3+ mitral regurgitation , and an intra-atrial septal aneurysm , notumor or thrombus was detected.laboratory studies on admission did demonstrate an elevated proteinof 8.5 and a globulin fraction of 4.2. therefore , an s-pep , iggand igm's were sent and were pending on discharge.disposition: medications on discharge: isordil 10 mg t.i.d. ,cardizem 60 mg q.i.d. , lopressor 25 mg b.i.d. , and anaspirin a day. the patient was discharged to home in very stablecondition and will followup in reum wilship memorial hospital on 8/28/93 at 1:30. a copy ofthis discharge should be sent to dr. mccrane , telephone number026-6050 , who is her primary medical doctor. during her stay here ,we were not able to get hold of him and notify him of the patient'sstatus.dictated by: aldo brunmeier , m.d. hc0attending: reid a. eggins , m.d. xg99hm821/7141batch: 1288 index no. hrsuq82dl9 d: 6/23/93t: 6/23/93cc: 1. dr. faden ,