381378910 | acmc | 56221906 | | 0403549 | 8/3/2005 12:00:00 am | renal failure | signed | dis | admission date: 7/13/2005 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/24/2005attending: whitey , oswaldo mdservice: et sa rillprincipal diagnoses: acute and chronic renal failure andcongestive heart failure.other problems and diagnoses considered: type 2 diabetes ,hyperlipidemia , acute and chronic renal insufficiency , upper gibleed with gastritis , ischemic cardiomyopathy , gout , sacraldecubitus ulcer.brief history of present illness: mr. slauson is a 60-year-oldman with a known history of ischemic cardiomyopathy and chf , efof 35% , status post cabg in 1990 with redo in september 2005 , as wellas mitral and tricuspid valve repair and left atrialreconstruction in september 2005. he presented asymptomatic from homeafter being called by his primary cardiologist as the lab resultshowed elevated bun and creatinine at 244/4.1. this all occurredin the setting of increased diuresis on torsemide , increasing thedose from 100 mg by mouth twice daily to 150 mg by mouth twicedaily as well as a recent addition of keflex for sacral decubitusulcer. on further questioning , mr. satoe reported symptoms ofincreasing dyspnea on exertion with decreased exercise toleranceas well as chronic loose stools with a history of c-diffpositivity but negative on last testing. he denied any chestpain , pleurisy , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , and both he andhis family denied any change in mental status as well ashematuria or dysuria , although he did complain of mild urinaryhesitancy. prior to presentation , he was directed to hold hisdiuretics , included torsemide as well as all other nephrotoxicagents including allopurinol , colchicine , digoxin , andlisinopril.his allergies include heparin to which he has heparin-inducedthrombocytopenia.in terms of medication reactions during this hospitalization , hewas placed on h. pylori treatment with amoxicillin ,clarithromycin , and nexium twice daily; and in reaction to this ,he had mild elevation of his liver function tests.brief admission physical: mr. blackmer is a&o x3 with a bp of90/60 , heart rate of 84. his lungs are bilaterally clear. hisheart exam shows a regular s1 , s2. faint s3 with a 1/6holosystolic murmur heard best at the apex with a jvd of 12 cmplus v waves. his abdomen is benign. extremities show no edema ,but a left lower extremity petechial rash. he is found to beheme positive with tarry stool , and he has a stable stage 4sacral decubitus ulcer , well granulated without clear evidence ofinfection.admission labs are significant for creatinine of 3.6 , bun of 239 ,potassium of 5.8 , digoxin of 1.7 , hematocrit of 29.3 , inr 4.1.admission ekg showed sinus rhythm with a first degree av block.stable q's in ii , iii , avf , as well as v4 to v6. left axisdeviation and right bundle branch block and an unchanged stdepression in v2.operations and procedures: 11/19/2005 , right heartcatheterization with pa line removal on 6/1/2005. 9/10/2005 ,upper endoscopy and colonoscopy. 6/12/2005 , echocardiogram.6/12/2005 , renal ultrasound.hosppital course:1. mr. kristin presented with acute and chronic renal failurewith baseline bun and creatinine at approximately 66/2.4 with arapid rise between presentation and the last noted value on11/15/2005. although , he was asymptomatic and did not have anyekg changes , he was treated with kayexalate and sodiumbicarbonate which resulted in rapid normalization of potassium.the superelevation of his bun was thought in part to be due topossible over diuresis but also complicated by the fact that hehad hemoccult positive stool as suspicious for a gi bleed as asource of increased nitrogen. the renal service was consultedand initial treatment of his acute renal failure included theabove plus removal of all fluid restriction and diuresis in orderto reverse any potential prerenal state. essentially , all urineand renal studies including eosinophils and renal ultrasound werenegative with a renal ultrasound showing normal kidneys withouthydronephrosis but without increased resistance in the feetbilaterally. at the time of discharge , his creatinine and bunhad fallen to 1.9/81 respectively and remained stable over days.the initial renal diet restrictions imposed during thehospitalization were removed towards the end of the stay withpersistently stable values as well.2. from a cardiovascular standpoint , a repeat echo on 9/12showed an ef of 35 to 40 with inferior wall and inferior septalsevere hypo to akinesis as well as posterior wall severehypokinesis with trace aortic insufficiency , 1+ mitral valveregurgitation , 2+ tricuspid valve regurgitation but normal leftventricular size and thickness as well as normal rightventricular size function. in order to better assess his fillingpressures and fluid status and attempt to optimize his renalfunction , mr. marthaler underwent a right heart cath with pa lineplacement on 11/19/2005 which revealed elevating fillingpressures including right atrium at 26 to 27 , right ventricle65/13 , pa 64/32 , wedge 36. pulmonary artery sat 39% , svr 1568 ,and pulmonary vascular resistance 221. his cardiac output andindex were both reduced. the pa line was left in for tailortherapy , and he was initially placed on nesiritide drip at 0.005as well as a lasix drip with good urine output and increase inhis cardiac output and index and decrease in his elevatedsystemic vascular resistance. on 10/6/2005 , the nesiritide dripwas discontinued and lasix continued with the addition ofshort-acting nitrates in the form of isordil. eventually , he wastransferred from the lasix drip to torsemide reaching optimaldose of 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. on 2/10/2005 , and further tailoringwith imdur 30 and hydralazine 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. for furtherafterload reduction were preformed. lisinopril previously usedon admission was continuously held given the recent acute renalfailure.3. from an ischemic standpoint , there were no active issuesduring the hospitalization. his beta blocker was reduced to 12.5briefly , but his normal dose of 25 once a day was resumed priorto discharge. in terms of his rate , it was well controlled onthe above regimen , but his rhythm showed frequent ectopy withoutresponse to diuresis or beta blockade. he does have an icd inplace which never fired during the course of the hospitalization.upon discharge , he was close to euvolemia with an approximatedischarge weight of 67.6 kg.4. from a gi standpoint , his initial presentation includedheme-positive tarry stools with elevated bun. he was seen by thegi service and underwent a colonscopy and upper egd which weresignificant for gastritis without signs of active bleeding aswell as internal hemorrhoids. h. pylori serologies werepositive , and he was initially started on clarithromycin ,amoxicillin , and nexium b.i.d. , but this regimen was changed toamoxicillin , flagyl , and nexium b.i.d. given an elevation of hislfts on the prior regimen. there was no overt gi bleeding , andhe tolerated the procedure without complication.5. from a nutrition standpoint , mr. splatt was seen by anutrition specialist who confirmed suspicion of suboptimalcaloric intake meeting his total caloric needs about only 60% andtotal protein needs are 85% despite labilization of his diet andthe addition of megace. his nutritional goals were even moreimportant given his large stage 4 sacral decubitus ulcer withpoor healing since january 2005. despite encouragement and theaddition of appetite stimulants with vitamin c , zinc , mineral ,multivitamins , and the addition of supplements , he presently fellshort of his goals but refused other means of dietsupplementation including ng tube placement and peg placement andis determined to provide adequate p.o. intake by mouth. he andhis family met with a registered dietitian and understand theimportance of his caloric intakes.6. from a musculoskeletal point of view , he has stage 4 sacraldecubitus ulcer which is followed by plastic surgery andfrequently debrided as an outpatient , dr. bastress and his team ,followed the patient while inhouse , and it was treated as perprotocol with b.i.d. dressing changes with panafil and wet-to-drydressings. initially , he was started on keflex for suspicion ofinfection in the wound , and this was changed to vancomycin givenmrsa growth in the wound and further klebsiella growth which wastreated with levofloxacin , but these were all discontinued on10/6/2005 as per plastic recommendations given the highprobability colonization. it was also felt that theseantibiotics would provide appropriate coverage for the possibleright lower lobe infiltrate questioned on x-ray.7. from an endocrinology standpoint , he has a history of diabetestype 2 , and he was continued on his lantus and novolog insulinsliding scale with titration of optimal glucose control in orderto promote wound healing. he was followed by the diabetesmanagement team.8. from rheumatologic standpoint , he has a history of gout , andhe was maintained on allopurinol , renal dosing , but colchicinehelps. on about 1/6/2005 , he developed symptoms of podagra ,and a prednisone taper starting at 15 mg was started with quickresolution of symptoms.9. from hematologic standpoint , he has anemia baseline and takesprocrit once a week as an outpatient. he received 1 unit ofpacked red blood cell transfusion on 8/18 and maintained hishematocrit throughout the remainder of the hospitalization. hewas also maintained on darbepoetin as an inpatient.laboratory data showed no evidence of hemolysis with a normalhaptoglobin and ldh , but evidence of decreased iron saturation.he was started on iron supplementation , and his coumadin was heldfor the supratherapeutic levels on admission and optimize priorto discharge.pertinent exam on discharge: patient was afebrile with stablevital signs. he did have decreased breath sounds at the rightbase know to correspond with his small right basilar opacity withatelectasis. other than that , his heart exam remained unchangedwith a regular rhythm , s1 and s2 , s3 , with a 1/6 holosystolicmurmur at the apex. his jvd was 11 cm , and he had no peripheraledema.discharge lab showed a creatinine of 1.9 with a bun of 81 ,potassium of 3.6 , hematocrit 32.1 , white blood cell count 9000.his digoxin level was normal at 0.8 , and his inr was 3.consultatnts: dr. bingaman from ox derd peake , dr. crisan from gi , dr.whidbee from plastic surgery , armando mishulovin from nutrition , aswell as the diabetic management service.discarge medications: aspirin 81 mg by mouth daily , albuterol 2puffs inhale 4 times a day as needed for shortness of breathrelieving , allopurinol 150 mg by mouth daily , amoxicillin 1000 mgby mouth twice a day for a total of 14 days , vitamin c 500 mg bymouth twice a day , digoxin 0.0625 mg by mouth daily , colace 100mg by mouth twice a day , iron 150 mg by mouth twice a day ,hydralazine 10 mg by mouth 3 times a day , megace 40 mg by mouthdaily , reglan 10 mg by mouth 4 times a day as needed for nausea ,oxycodone 5 to 10 mg by mouth every 4 hours as needed for pain.prednisone taper , to complete the following course , 15 mg bymouth daily for 3 days , 10 mg by mouth daily for 3 days , and then5 mg by mouth daily for 3 days , to be administered sequentially.multivitamin with minerals 1 table by mouth daily , coumadin 3 mgby mouth every evening , zinc sulfate 220 mg by mouth daily ,toprol xl 25 mg by mouth daily , imdur 30 mg by mouth daily ,torsemide 100 mg by mouth twice daily , nexium 40 mg by mouthtwice daily , lantus 40 units subcutaneously nightly , novolog 14units subcutaneously 5 ml , flagyl 500 mg by mouth 4 times a dayfor a total of 14 days , potasium chloride slow release tablets 40meq by mouth daily , and procrit 40 , 000 units subcutaneouslyweekly.he was discharged in a stable condition. there were no pendingtests or followup tests needed. he will follow with dr. leandro deprez he is full code.primary care phsyicaian/health officicer: odis mike ,m.d.escription document: 1-2978751 rwdictated by: noblitt , zacheryattending: delrio , mackdictation id 4107833d: 10/21/05t: 2/18/05