121326339 | ah | 03302120 | | 281673 | 6/5/1996 12:00:00 am | pancreatitis | signed | dis | admission date: 6/5/1996 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/6/1996admission diagnoses: abdominal pain and constipation.other diagnoses: 1 ) hyponatremia.2 ) diabetes.3 ) hypertension.4 ) right foot calcaneal flap.5 ) hematuria.6 ) neurogenic bladder.history of present illness: this 52 year old female presented witha four day history of nausea ,vomiting , and abdominal discomfort and a one week history of rightscapular pain radiating down bilateral arms , worse on the right.this was a 52 year old female with severe and poorly controlleddiabetes mellitus and hypertension recently hospitalized for repairof a diabetic foot ulcer. she was discharged to rehabilitationpostoperatively on clindamycin and apparently did well atrehabilitation. she was recently , this past week , discharged homeand four days prior to admission , however , the patient noted theonset of nausea and vomiting two to three times a day and severeconstipation. there was no blood in her vomit , no sick contacts ,no bowel movements for the past four or five days , no hematemesis ,and no fever or chills. she was unable to keep down any p.o. shealso noted over the past week an increase in her chronic bilateralarm pain and onset of new right scapular pain. arm pain and handpain had been attributed to carpal tunnel syndrome in the past.she reported chest pressure but denied shortness of breath ,diaphoresis , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , orthopnea , and any otherchest pain syndrome. patient also complained of right upperquadrant epigastric abdominal tenderness. she had a history of anopen cholecystectomy in 1980. she did not drink alcohol and shehad had no other abdominal surgery. the pain was associated withnausea and vomiting. she presented to the emergency ward and wasfound to have a lipase of 529. she was evaluated for acutepancreatitis. she received hydration in the emergency room and wasadmitted to the general medical service for work-up.review of systems: no sick contacts , anxiety brought out burningin the chest , no history of diabeticketoacidosis , negative for vaginal discharge and diarrhea buthistory of chronic constipation , and no history of hepatitis , lungdisease , or peptic ulcer disease.current medications: vasotec 10 mg p.o. q.d. , nph 60 q.a.m. and 20q.p.m. , tegretol p.r.n. for pain , clindamycin300 mg p.o. t.i.d. , and some opiate the patient had been takingwithout a bowel regimen.allergies: augmentin , keflex , and percocet.social history: married , no smoking , no ethanol , no sexuallytransmitted diseases , no recent travel history ,and no sick contacts.past medical history: 1 ) diabetes. 2 ) hypertension. 3 ) carpaltunnel syndrome. 4 ) angina. 5 )peripheral vascular disease. 6 ) left lower extremity ulcers. 7 )persantine mibi done in 11/23 showed moderate ischemic anteriorwall.physical examination: temperature was 97.8 , heart rate 84 , bloodpressure 124/66 , respiratory rate 22 on twoliters saturating 98%. heent: benign. neck: without thyroidmasses , supple , and no adenopathy. back: no costovertebral angletenderness and reproducible tenderness over right scapula. pulses:2+ throughout. nodes: no cervical , occipital , axillary , orsupraclavicular adenopathy. heart: s1 , s2 , and no rubs , murmurs ,or gallops. lungs: bilateral basilar crackles , left greater thanright , otherwise clear to auscultation. abdomen: slightlydistended , mildly tympanitic , decreased bowel sounds but present ,mild to moderate abdominal tenderness that was diffuse butincreased on palpation in the epigastric region , no fluid wave , andno rebound. extremities: right ankle ulcer , dry. rectal: guaiacnegative. neurological: nonfocal.laboratory examination: chest x-ray showed mild increase in heartsize and no effusions or infiltrates. kubshowed no evidence of obstruction and full of stool. ekg showednormal sinus rhythm at 84 and downsloping st segments inferiorlyand laterally that were not new. laboratories showed a sodium of115 , potassium 4.4 , bicarbonate of 14 , and arterial blood gasshowed ph of 7.48 , pco2 of 36 , po2 of 112 , lipase of 529 that onrepeat was 351. urinalysis showed 3+ budding yeast , 3+ bacteria ,and white blood cells 5-10.hospital course: patient was admitted to the general medicalservice with abdominal pain and hyponatremia.abdominal pain was felt to be secondary to longstandingimmobilization and morphine precipitating constipation. abdominalct was negative. pain improved with aggressive bowel regimen. shewas found to have a neurogenic bladder and developed hematuria dueto foley trauma. this cleared with irrigation and ofloxacintreatment times five days was recommended by urology. she had afollow-up plastic surgery appointment scheduled for the followingday after discharge. her hyponatremia of 115 resolved withhydration with normal saline. patient was discharged with normalliver function tests and normal amylase and lipase. serum sodiumhad returned to baseline.disposition: she is discharged in stable condition.discharge medications: vasotec 10 mg p.o. q.d. , nph insulin 30units subcutaneously q.a.m. , nph insulin 10units subcutaneously q.p.m. , cisapride 10 mg p.o. q.i.d. , ofloxacin200 mg p.o. b.i.d. times four days , and colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.dictated by: sal d. papiernik , m.d. zh09attending: vito j. shemwell , m.d. cd73uq490/6107batch: 95475 index no. ybrh9l3lh7 d: 6/7/97t: 8/12/97