667056404 | tgmh | 57019463 | | 946740 | 2/8/2000 12:00:00 am | abd pain | signed | dis | admission date: 6/15/2000 report status: signeddischarge date: 7/29/2000history of present illness: the patient is a 33 year-old womanwith diet controlled diabetesmellitus , morbid obesity , who presents to the emergency departmentwith periumbilical pain , radiating to the right lower quadrant. inher first trip to the emergency department her pain was diffuse andwas thought to be gastroenteritis. after being sent home , she hadan increase in pain and vomiting and was unable to tolerate p.o. onher second trip one day later she was vomiting with no fever butchills and no flatus. the decision was made to take her to theoperating room to explore for appendicitis.past medical history: non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus ,diet controlled.past surgical history: none.medication: none.allergies: no known drug allergies.physical examination: the patient was a morbidly obese woman inno acute distress. she was tachycardic.chest was clear. abdomen was soft with positive bowel sounds ,tenderness in the right and left lower quadrant with positive psoasand rovsing's sign. rectal examination showed normal tone and nostool. pelvic examination showed no cervical motion tenderness.laboratory: abdominal ct was obtained which showed 5x5 cm cecalthickening with extraluminal air. this was thought to be consistent with aperforated appendicitis or phlegmon. cbc showed a white bloodcount 19 , 000. her urine hcg was negative.hospital course: the patient was taken to the operating room onmay , by dr. jenovese , who initially opened theright lower quadrant to explore for appendicitis. in exploring theabdomen , purulent material was found in the right lower quadrant ,and the appendix was not able to be visualized. the decision wasmade to open the midline incision which was done. details of theoperation may be found in dr. zinsli 's operative report. byreport , she had gangrenous portions of the right colon ,necessitating a right colectomy. this was performed , and shetolerated the procedure well and was transferred extubated instable condition to the floor. her immediate postoperative coursewas complicated by supraventricular tachycardia to a rate of 200with hypotension , requiring beta blockade and adenosine. she wastransferred to the surgical icu for further management. after theuse of beta blockade and adenosine , her arrhythmia resolved. thiswas found to occur with magnesium of 1.5 which was repleted. perrecommendations of the cardiology service , an echocardiogram wasobtained which was normal , and she ruled out for myocardialinfarction by serial cks and electrocardiograms. an ng tube was inplace which was continued on the first postoperative day , and shewas kept on zantac. she was kept on ampicillin , levofloxacin andflagyl. a central line was in place. over the next fewpostoperative days , as her ng tube was removed and her diet slowlyadvanced with sips , she was converted to p.o. medication. at onepoint she developed a second episode of supraventriculartachycardia and was thought to be either atrial fibrillation versussinus tachycardia. this did not respond immediately to lopressorand per cardiology's recommendations , she was changed to diltiazemfollowed by diltiazem drip. when stabilized , her dose of lopressorwas increased , diltiazem stopped and she was converted to p.o.lopressor 50 t.i.d. which kept her in sinus rhythm and a stablerate. by the third and fourth postoperative day , she wastolerating a regular diet , passing flatus and bowel movements andambulating independently. she was weaned off her oxygen and hercentral line was discontinued. she was stable for discharge.the patient was discharged to home on august , 2000. at that timeshe will have completed a 5-day course of ampicillin , levofloxacinand flagyl. she is tolerating a regular diet , ambulatingdependently and requiring minimal amounts of oral analgesics. shereceived wet to dry dressing changes b.i.d. to her wounds , whichwill need to be continued as an outpatient by a visiting nurse.discharge medication: lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. , percocet 1-2tabs p.o. q 3-4 hours p.r.n. pain , colace 100mg b.i.d. while on percocet.followup: the patient is instructed to followup with dr. goanin 1-2 weeks and should call his office for anappointment.dictated by: joel j. millimaki , m.d. na22attending: hector triggs , m.d. yw80ed403/3861batch: 8300 index no. etot5h4wzf d: 5/28t: 5/28