182781842 | sh | 49695934 | | 189392 | 1/13/2000 12:00:00 am | congestive heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 8/29/2000 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/9/2000principal diagnosis: congestive heart failure.secondary diagnoses: 1. adriamycin induced cardiomyopathy.2. hypertension.3. diabetes.4. sarcoidosis.5. left breast cancer.6. status post lumpectomy.7. status post x-ray therapy.8. status post chemotherapy with adriamycinin 1984.9. hypercholesterolemia.10. deep venous thrombosis.11. obstructive sleep apnea.12. coronary artery disease.13. status post myocardial infarctions x 2.history of present illness: the patient is a 56-year-old womanwith a history of breast cancer andcardiomyopathy , secondary to adriamycin , as well as other medicalproblems , with left hip pain that has been a chronic issue andwhich prompted her to present to onver hospitalemergency department on january , 2000. in the emergencydepartment , the patient became progressively lethargic and anarterial blood gas there revealed hypoventilation , presumedsecondary to obesity and the patient's congestive heart failure.blood sugar in the emergency department was found to be 46 and thepatient was given d50 , but eventually required a d10 drip tomaintain her sugars. the patient was also placed on bipap tomaintain o2 saturations. it seemed that the combination ofcongestive heart failure and poor baseline respiration , secondaryto body habitus , led to this acute worsening. the patient wasstabilized in the emergency department and sent to the floor onbipap.past medical history: the patient's past medical history includedadriamycin induced cardiomyopathy ,hypertension , diabetes , sarcoid left breast cancer ,hypercholesterolemia , deep venous thromboses , osa , and coronaryartery disease , status post myocardial infarctions x 2.medications on admission: at the time of admission , the patientwas on elavil 25 mg p.o. q.h.s. ,dulcolax 5-10 mg p.o. q. day p.r.n. , digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q. day ,colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , lasix 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. , robitussin dm10 ml q. 4 hours p.r.n. , hydralazine 25 mg p.o. q.i.d. , insulin nph30 mg subcutaneously b.i.d. , zestril 40 mg p.o. q. day , maalox ,milk and magnesia , nitroglycerin 0.4 mg sublingual p.r.n. , sennatablets p.r.n. , coumadin 5 mg p.o. q. day , zocor 10 mg p.o. q.h.s. ,oxycontin 10 mg p.o. q. 12 hours , oxycodone 5-10 mg q. 6 hoursp.r.n. pain , and prevacid 30 mg p.o. q. day.social history: the patient's social history revealed that shelives alone with family help for daily chores.the patient denied a history of tobacco or alcohol use.physical examination: physical examination revealed the patient tobe an obese woman with vital signs revealingtemperature 96 , pulse 93 , blood pressure 115/60 , respiratory rate24 , and saturations 78% on 1.5 liters of oxygen , with 97% on 4liters of oxygen. heent examination showed no jugular venousdistention. the neck was thick. there was no lymphadenopathy andno carotid bruits. extraocular movements were intact. the pupilswere equal , round and reactive to light. cardiovascularexamination showed a regular rate and rhythm without murmur , rub ,or gallop. the lungs showed good breath sounds bilaterally , andfew crackles in both bases anteriorly. the abdomen wasnon-distended and non-tender , obese , firm , and with hypoactivebowel sounds. the extremities showed generalized anasarca.neurological examination showed the patient to be alert andresponsive at the time of examination. cranial nerves ii-xii wereintact.laboratory data: laboratory data on admission revealed sodium 140 ,potassium 5.7 , chloride 99 , bicarb 34 , bun 32 ,creatinine 1.3 , glucose 40 , white count 8.2 , hematocrit 39.3 ,platelets 241 , alt 32 , ast 65 , ldh 717 , ck 436 , with an mb fractionof 5.4 , troponin i 0.22 , total bilirubin 0.6 , direct bilirubin 0.1 ,alkaline phosphatase 381 , digoxin 1.8 , calcium 9.4 , and albumin4.1. urine tox screen was negative. an inr was 2.5 , ptt 32.0 , andd-dimer greater than 1000. arterial blood gas before bipap showedph 7.41 , pco2 63 , and po2 66 on 2 liters of oxygen by nasalcannula. a portable chest x-ray showed moderate to severepulmonary edema , bilateral hilar fullness , right greater than left ,and cardiomegaly. abdominal ultrasound was negative for ascites.a kub showed free air , non-specific bowel gas pattern , and noobstruction. a urinalysis showed no protein , 2+ blood , 5-10 redblood cells , and 1+ squamous epithelial cells. electrocardiogramshowed normal sinus rhythm in the 80s , low voltage , with no changefrom previous studies.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the step down unitfor diuresis and continued bipap. however , thepatient did not tolerate bipap , but diuresed well , in fact , toowell , to intravenous boluses of lasix , with urine output of 7liters negative in one day , on may , followed by ventilatoryfailure on may , with bicarb greater than assay. the patientwas transferred to the ccu for worsening respiratory acidosis andnot tolerating bipap. the patient was intubated at that time. thepatient began spiking temperatures on may , as well , and wasstarted on a regimen of levofloxacin and clindamycin on septemberfor the question of aspiration pneumonia. on may , aswan-ganz catheter was floated with pulmonary capillary wedgepressures of 25 and the patient was started on afterload reductionwith isordil , hydralazine , and diamox for metabolic alkalosis ,which was thought to be contributing to her worsening respiratoryacidosis. on july , ceftazidime was started for pseudomonas ,which was found in the patient's sputum. over the next severaldays , the patient had an increased peak requirement to oxygenatesatisfactorily. on november , vancomycin was started for coagnegative staph , which was cultured from an arterial line , andlevofloxacin was discontinued. on may , the antibiotics werechanged per recommendation of the infectious disease consultationto ceftazidime and flagyl for pseudomonas in the sputum culture ,and the question of c. diff. vancomycin and clindamycin werediscontinued at that time. on february , amikacin was added fordouble coverage for advanced associated pneumonia with pseudomonas.subsequently , the patient slowly improved and it became easier tooxygenate her , with a decreasing fever curve. a chest ct scan onjanuary , was consistent with bilateral pneumonia , as well. onjanuary , the patient was taken off the vent to a trach collar ,following her tracheostomy and peg procedure , which she toleratedwell on may .other issues in the patient's hospitalization have includedhypernatremia , thought secondary to the patient's receiving largeamounts of lasix and having no access to free water. this wastreated with free water boluses. the patient also had prerenalazotemia , which was improving at the time of discharge , as well ascoronary artery disease , which was not an issue , and fluidoverload , secondary to cardiomyopathy , which was much improved.the patient's course was also complicated by acute renal failure ,with creatinines rising as high as 2.6 before falling to 1.5 on theday prior to discharge. the patient's chest ct scan also showedsignificant lymphadenopathy , which was noted prior , and was thoughtto be secondary to sarcoid , which was recurrent ca , at this point ,given that there was no biopsy data. also , a transthoracicechocardiogram showed a thickened mitral valve , which may beunchanged from prior studies , and the clinical suspicion forendocarditis was fairly low. however , if further positive bloodcultures should arise , this might require further work-up. thepatient's course was also complicated by anemia , which has requiredseveral blood transfusions while the has been here. the patienthas had several episodes of bleeding and oozing from variousprocedure sites , as well as some guaiac positive stool. thepatient's reticulocyte was found to be 4.9% , while the hematocritat that point , on february , was 25.7%. given her reticulocyteindex of 1.40 , which was inappropriately low , the patient was ,therefore , started on erythropoietin , as well as ironsupplementation. the patient was also supplemented with tubefeeds , as well as promod protein supplements , during the course ofher admission. in terms of the patient's endocrine issues , thepatient was treated with insulin , including varying doses ofregular insulin , nph , and subcutaneously , as well as insulin dripsat times. while in the hospital , physical therapy began to see thepatient prior to discharge and the patient was able to transferfrom bed to chair with assistance.while in the hospital , the patient underwent tracheostomy and pegprocedure on may , 2000.medications on discharge: at the time of discharge , the patientwas on diamox 250 mg per g-tube b.i.d. ,asa 325 mg p.o. q. day , amikacin 600 mg iv q. 24 hours , naturaltears two drops ou t.i.d. , ceftazidime 1000 mg iv q. 8 hours ,erythropoietin 5000 units subcutaneously three times per week ,ferrous sulfate 300 mg per g-tube t.i.d. , folate 1 mg per g-tube q.day , nph insulin 105 units subcutaneously b.i.d. , regular insulinsliding scale q.a.c. and h.s. , metoprolol 50 mg per g-tube q.i.d. ,nitroglycerin 0.4 mg one tablet sublingual q. five minutes x 3p.r.n. chest pain , nystatin suspension 5 ml p.o. q.i.d. with theinstructions that a swab may be used if the patient is unable toswish and swallow , omeprazole 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. , potassium chlorideimmediate release p.o. sliding scale , senna tablets two tabs p.o.b.i.d. , therapeutic multivitamin one tab p.o. q. day , or 5 ml perg-tube q. day , simvastatin 10 mg per g-tube q.h.s. , atroventnebulizer 0.5 mg inhaled q.i.d. , lovenox 100 mg subcutaneously q.12 hours with the instructions to check heparin factor 10a levelsafter the third dose on may , potassium chronic sliding scaleq. day , and flovent 220 mg inhaled b.i.d. , with four puffs b.i.d.condition on discharge: at the time of discharge , the patient wasin stable condition.disposition: the patient was to be transferred to the pulmonaryrehabilitation program at the u of .follow-up: follow-up care should include monitoring the patient'santicoagulation with checking heparin factor 10a levelsfor her lovenox after the third dose on may .  the patientmay also be transitioned to coumadin once a satisfactoryanticoagulation with lovenox has been achieved. the patient shouldalso follow-up with her primary care physician , dr. ronnie g sheldon at park as soon as possible while at park cean hamppo orafter she is discharged from there.dictated by: gerard crimin , m.d. ch01attending: danilo t. pizzolato , m.d. ms5  pj511/9831batch: 70434 index no. kqblet65lj d: 10/8t: 10/8