746682815 | kmc | 28163367 | | 6661437 | 2/19/2004 12:00:00 am | atrial tachycardia | signed | dis | admission date: 10/7/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/29/2004attending: vaughn birkett m.d.attending physicians:1. aldo r. molett , m.d.2. leigh l. mauricio raiford , mdprincipal diagnoses: clotted av fistula , atrial fibrillation ,and change in mental status.history of present illness: ms. donalson is a 61-year-old femalewith a history of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy status postcardiac transplant in 1991 complicated by allograft coronaryartery disease , rejection x2 , post transplant mvr and tvr , alsowith end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis , diabetes mellitus ,hypertension and a subacute change in her mental status over thelast few months that presented with a clot in her right upperextremity av fistula. her last hemodialysis session was two daysprior to admission , and she is usually dialyzed on mondays ,wednesdays and fridays. interventional radiology did not performa thrombectomy of the right upper extremity fistula clot , as thepatient's systolic blood pressures were in the 90s , and they wereconcerned about the patient's change in mental status as shewould need conscious sedation for the procedure. she was alsonoted upon admission to have an ekg that displayed an atrialtachyarrhythmia with 2:1 block that was presumed to be atrialflutter. her heart rate was noted to be in the 110s to 120s , andthe rest of her vital signs were stable. the patient denied anychest pain , shortness of breath , lightheadedness , orpalpitations. it should be noted however that the patient wasnot entirely conversant. after speaking with the patient's son ,more information was obtained about this patient's subacutechange in her mental status. the patient was admitted in julyof 2004 for a fall and femur fracture. during that admission ,the son stated that the patient had an acute change in her mentalstatus such that she did not know who she was or where she was.she was not answering questions appropriately. this waspersistent during that hospital stay and was of unclear etiology.prior to that admission , the patient is at baseline oriented toperson , place and time , and she is also very conversant. the sondoes admit that the patient occasionally becomes confused aboutthe day of the week. upon discharge from that admission , thepatient was sent to the adtute hospital for rehabilitation. theson says that over the last few months , she has become slightlybetter but definitely not at her baseline. he states that she isoften disoriented to person and place , although she does answersome questions appropriately. the day prior to her admission ,the patient's other son visit with her at the meretcan hospital of county anddid not notice any change in her mental status since herdischarge. he has noted decreased p.o. intake over the lastmonth with the patient often refusing to eat. upon questioningthe patient , she denies chest pain , abdominal pain , shortness ofbreath , lightheadedness , and palpitations. although , she doesanswer yes and no to some questions , she is not very conversantand does not volunteer any additional information.past medical history:1. idiopathic cardiomyopathy status post heart transplant in1991 complicated by allograft coronary artery disease ,post-transplant mvr and tvr , and transplant rejection x2.2. end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis ( monday , wednesday ,friday hemodialysis ).3. diabetes mellitus.4. hypertension.5. peptic ulcer disease.6. history of right frontal cva.7. recurrent falls of unclear etiology with a reveal monitorimplanted.8. asthma.home medications: labetalol 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. , imdur 30 mg p.o.q.day , lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q.day , insulin nph 20 units subcuq.a.m. , nephrocaps one tablet p.o. q.day , nexium 40 mg p.o.q.day , prednisone 5 mg p.o. q.d. , imuran 50 mg p.o. q.day ,rapamycin 8 mg p.o. q.day , sevelamer 800 mg p.o. t.i.d. , lipitor20 mg p.o. q.day , aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.day.allergies: percocet.physical examination: temperature 96.3 , pulse 110 , bloodpressure 90/60 , respiratory rate 18 , oxygen saturation 96% onroom air. in general , the patient appears slightly cachetic andis in no acute distress. she is awake and is occasionallyresponding to questions but is otherwise not very conversant.she is oriented to place. her head and neck exam isunremarkable. her cardiovascular exam is notable for regularrate and rhythm , normal s1 and s2 , no gallops , 2/6 systolicmurmur at the apex. her jvp was noted to be 8 cm. her lungswere clear to auscultation bilaterally on a limited physical exam( the patient is not inspiring deeply on request ). her abdomen isbenign. her extremities are warm with 1+ dp pulses. her rightupper extremity graft is without thrill and without bruit.laboratory data: her laboratory values were notable for a bun of44 , creatinine 6.8 , calcium 11.2 , pth 263 , white blood cells 6.7 ,hematocrit 47.3 , and platelets 261.ekg: her ekg displayed a flutter with a 2:1 block. her heartrate was estimated to be at 110.studies: ms. sluyter had a noncontrast head ct that was notablefor widened ventricles and subarachnoid spaces. she was noted tohave extensive periventricular and subcortical white matterchanges. there was a focal lesion in the frontal lobe on theright consistent with old infarct and unchanged from her ct scantwo months prior. there was no evidence for hemorrhage. ingeneral , there was no change in the ct scan when compared to herct scan from 5/17/04. the patient underwent a transthoracicechocardiogram on 8/20/04. this tte showed lv with a normalsize and moderate concentric lvh. her lvef was noted to be 55%.there were no wall motion abnormalities. her rv size andfunction was grossly normal. her mitral valve was noted to bestatus post repair with a transmitral gradient of 4.0 mmhg.there was trace mr. there was no change in this echocardiogramwhen compared to her echocardiogram from 4/7/04. the patientalso underwent a lumbar puncture. her csf was notable for anelevated protein. her csf had a normal glucose , two white bloodcells with lymphocyte predominance , gram stain that did not showany organisms , and cultures that are no growth to date. oncytology , there were no malignant cells seen in the csf. hercryptococcal antigen was negative. csf studies that are pendinginclude the following: cmv culture , hsv culture , vzv culture ,listeria culture , hsv pcr , cmv pcr , hhv6 pcr , vzv pcr , and vdrl.the cultures thus far have had no growth to date.assessment and plan: ms. abrams is a 61-year-old female with ahistory of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy status post cardiactransplant in 1991 complicated by allograft coronary arterydisease , post transplant mvr and tvr , and rejection , also withend-stage renal disease on hemodialysis , hypertension anddiabetes mellitus who presented with a right upper extremityfistula clot , new atrial flutter with 2:1 block and a change inher mental status that has been of many months.1. cardiovascular:a. pump: the patient is status post cardiac transplant and hasbeen maintained on her outpatient immunosuppressive regimen.this includes prednisone , rapamycin , and imuran. she hasremained euvolemic during her hospital admission.b. ischemia: there were no active issues , and the patient wasmaintained on her outpatient regimen of aspirin , statin andimdur.c. rhythm: electrophysiology has been seeing the patient andhas recommended medical management for her atrial flutter/atrialfibrillation with 2:1 block. the patient's heart rate rangedfrom the 80s to 120s , and she was started on diltiazem 60 mg p.o.q.i.d. she seemed to respond well to the diltiazem , although itwas hard to measure a response since the patient often refusedher medications. the patient was also maintained on metoprolol75 mg p.o. q.i.d. it was hoped that the addition of thediltiazem to the metoprolol would allow for the rate control ofthis patient's atrial arrhythmia.2. renal: the patient has a history of end-stage renal diseaseon hemodialysis. a tunneled hemodialysis catheter was placed on3/9/04 for temporary access for hemodialysis. she was dialyzedwhile in the hospital and maintained on nephrocaps. she isscheduled on 11/28/04 for a right upper extremity venogram inorder to access her anatomy for the vascular surgeons to createhemodialysis access.3. neurology/psychiatry: the patient's change in mental statusover the last few months is still of an unclear etiology. sheunderwent an eeg that showed diffuse slowing that was consistentwith a toxic metabolic etiology. there was no seizure activity.she underwent two ct scans of her head without contrast that werenegative for bleed. there were no changes in her ct scans whencompared to prior ct scan. she also underwent an lp with csf asmentioned above. an mri was not completed as the patient has anevent monitor in her heart. the differential diagnosis for thispatient is changed and her mental status still includesdepression and pseudodementia , and we are still ruling outinfectious etiologies with the csf studies that are pending atthe moment ( although this is unlikely ). it is hoped that shewill be able to follow up with neuropsychiatric testing in orderto further evaluate her change in mental status. it should benoted that during her hospital stay , the patient's level ofinteraction with the staff varied. there were days where she wasmore conversant and would answer many questions appropriately.there were also times when the patient refused to speak withstaff , appeared withdrawn and refused medications and treatments.the son has noted that she was actually better in the hospital ,appearing more conversant and interactive. it does not appearthat these periods of increased interaction with staff and familywere in any correlation with this patient's hemodialysis.4. endocrinology: the patient has type 2 diabetes on insulin athome. she was maintained on a sliding scale of lispro withfingersticks blood glucose before every meal and before sleeping.her blood sugars were in control and ranged between 110 to 240.5. infectious diseases: the patient has had a few low-gradetemperatures to the 100.0. an infectious workup did not yieldany etiology. she has not had an elevation in her white bloodcell count , although this may be a result of herimmunosuppression. blood cultures from 7/10/04 yielded nogrowth. urine was not cultured , as the patient is anuric.6. feeding and electrolytes: the patient was hypercalcemic onadmission. this was attributed to vitamin d per the renalfellow. her calcium levels were followed and trended into thenormal range. she was fed a pureed and honey thick diet afterher speech and swallow evaluation indicated that the patient hadintact swallowing function.7. gi: the patient has a history of peptic ulcer disease , andshe was given nexium 40 mg p.o. q.day.discharge medications: aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.day , imuran 50 mgp.o. q.day , colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , heparin 5000 unitssubcutaneously t.i.d. , prednisone 5 mg p.o. q.day , simvastatin 40mg p.o. q.day , imdur sustained release 30 mg p.o. q.day ,nephrocaps one tablet q.day , sliding scale of lispro insulin ,rapamycin 8 mg p.o. q.day , cartia xt 240 mg p.o. q.day , andtoprol xl 300 mg p.o. q.day.the patient was discharged to a rehabilitation center in stablecondition. she is to follow up with vascular surgery for a newaccess for hemodialysis. it is hoped that she will follow upwith neuropsychiatric testing in order to further evaluate hersubacute change in mental status. the patient has three sonsthat are very involved in her care. one of her sons is namedroderick nead , and his phone number is 179-486-3367.escription document: 9-9608115 issten teldictated by: creekmore , emeryattending: geary , percydictation id 3553682d: 10/11/04t: 11/28/04