439348240 | mhamc | 24948070 | | 2111709 | 8/20/2004 12:00:00 am | syncope | signed | dis | admission date: 1/15/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 1/26/2004attending: quentin buckholz m.d.medical service:general medicine.disposition:home with services.discharge medications:1. amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d.2. enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.3. captopril 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d.4. fluoxetine 20 mg p.o. q.d.5. nitroglycerine 0.4 mg sublingual tablet every 5 minutes x 3p.r.n. chest pain.6. nephrocaps one tablet p.o. q.d.7. clopidogrel 75 mg p.o. q.d.8. sevelamer 800 mg p.o. t.i.d. with meals.9. pepcid 20 mg p.o. q.h.s.10. vancomycin at hemodialysis to complete 14-day course asdiscussed with dialysis , etc.diet:low cholesterol low saturated fat ada 2100 calories per day diet.allergies:no known drug allergies.admission diagnoses:syncope and chest pain.discharge diagnosis:angina.other diagnoses:end-stage renal disease , coronary artery disease , status postcabg , vt , status post icd placement , peripheral vascular disease ,history of cva with residual right-sided weakness , diabetes ,hypercholesterolemia , low back pain , and peripheral neuropathy.treatments and procedures:pacemaker/icd interrogated hemodialysis.brief resume of hospital course:the patient is a 68-year-old gentleman with history of severe andoperable coronary artery disease , status post cabg , history ofventricular tachycardia , status post icd placement who is onamiodarone , end stage renal disease on hemodialysis , status postcva , who presents with chest pain and a report of a syncopalepisode. he is followed at srho and has multiple multipleadmissions for chest pain and rule out mi in the setting ofreceiving or having just received hemodialysis. on the day priorto admission , 9/17/04 , the patient had chest pain andhemodialysis and was admitted to pacmh where he was ruled out formi by enzymes. he was discharged from bahm on 8/5/04 and laterthat day , per the patient , he had a fight with his family membersand stood up and abruptly felt lightheaded and "passed out." hereports no palpitations or chest pain prior to the event andbelieves that he may have been unconscious for 20 minutes.talking to the family , the patient was actually attempting tothrow something at this son , fell , and had no loss ofconsciousness after falling. the patient reports that he woke onthe floor and developed severe chest pain with radiation to theleft arm and jaw , which is typical with his anginal symptomsaccording to his cardiologist. he denies any recent change inchronic shortness of breath or exercise capacity , orthopnea , orincreased edema. he had a recent mibi on 4/7 that showedmild mid anterior and inferior wall ischemia with aposterior-basal scar. he was deemed an obvious surgicalcandidate and has been medically managed.in the emergency department , he received iv fluids , aspirin ,sublingual nitroglycerin x 3 and morphine with resolution ofchest pain. upon admission to the medical team , his vital signswere stable and he denied chest pain. he was admitted to ruleout myocardial infarction.hospital course by issues:1. cardiovascular ischemia: this patient with a known historyof cad who has been medically managed per his primarycardiologist. he has a history of cabg. his last cath was in8/22 that showed diffuse disease. at which time , he receivedstents to the left main and lad. on this admission , the patientruled out for mi with three sets of negative cardiac enzymesincluding troponin. no ekg changes were noted. he was continuedon aspirin products and beta-blocker as well as ace inhibitor ,and amiodarone. the patient is not on a statin though he hasbeen in the past; he reports that he had some sort of a reactionto the medication. on the day after his admission , he had chestpain and hemodialysis but was relieved by sublingualnitroglycerin. over his hospital course , he continued to have2-3 episodes of chest pain per day that were relieved bynitroglycerine and morphine. he had no ekg changes in thesetting of any of these episodes. isordil was added for improvedpain control briefly. cardiology was consulted and felt that thefrequency of the pain , the rapid onset and offset , and thereproducibility of the pain to palpation made angina less likely;they did not feel that catheterization or further workup wasindicated.2. cardiovascular pump function: initially , the patient was dryon exam , and demonstrated no signs or symptoms of heart failure.he was actually orthostatic by symptoms but his blood pressureremained stable. his story of losing consciousness was difficultto corroborate; if he did indeed lose consciousness , his historyis consistent with orthostasis. management was monitored by thehemodialysis service.3. cardiovascular rhythm: the patient has an icd for history ofvt , and he is continued on amiodarone. there was concern thatpossible arrhythmia or pacer malfunction could have been thecause of his symptoms. in addition , when he fell he said hemight have fallen on his pacemaker site. on the morning afterhis admission , when he was on hemodialysis , the patient and nurseboth heard a belching sound that seemed to be coming from thearea of the patient's pacemaker. the electrophysiology team wasconsulted and pacemaker was interrogated and found to befunctioning well , with no history of arrhythmia or alarm. ekgsremained unchanged from baseline , except there was a prolongationof qtc with the initiation of zyprexa , which was stopped. thepatient's heart rate remained stable in the 50s-60s on hiscardiac regimen.4. renal: the patient has end stage renal disease onhemodialysis and was apparently incompletely dialyzed on the dayprior to admission. due to chest pain , it was initiallydifficult to have the patient complete a course of hemodialysisbut over his hospital stay he was dialyzed effectively. he hasarrangements to follow up with his outpatient hemodialysis afterdischarge5. psychiatry: after ruling out for myocardial infarction ,plans were being made to discharge the patient home and thepatient's family was called. they reported concern that did notwant the patient to return home because of abusive and erraticbehavior by the patient. they reported that actually in thesetting of the patient's fall , the police were called and whenthey arrived the patient complained of chest pain and was broughtto the hospital by ambulance. there was a history of restrainingor taking out by the wife against the patient , and she reportedfeeling unsafe with him from the home. psychiatry did see thepatient and felt that he was unreliable and was probably not safeto go home to take care of himself , but that he was alsoconfident to make decisions and was not acutely psychotic , andtherefore , it should not be committed against his will. thepatient denied any suicidal or homicidal ideation. the patientwas started on ssri and initially on zyprexa though this wasstopped because of prolonged qtc. after a few days , the patient'family changed their mind and decided that they would be okaywith him coming home. the situation was discussed with thepatient's primary doctor , with the family over the phone , as theywould not come in for a family meeting with the patient and hedid go home , but will likely require a psych follow up as anoutpatient.6. endocrine: the patient continued on insulin and regularinsulin sliding scale for his history of diabetes.7. infectious disease: the patient developed a low bloodpressure and was noted to have erythema and pus from the site ofhis hemodialysis catheter in the right subclavian position. hebecame fully hypertensive and required a brief course of pressorsto maintain blood pressure. the catheter was removed andcultures were obtained that demonstrated methicillin-resistantstaph aureus. the patient was treated with vancomycin andgentamicin dose to his renal function and showed improvement inhis symptoms in clearance of his bacteremia. the gentamicin wasstopped and plans were made for the patient to receive vancomycinas an outpatient and hemodialysis in follow up. he was dialyzedfrom vaf fistula in his arm that had been created a number ofmonths prior to this admission.8. nutrition: the patient was seen by nutrition and was given arenal carbohydrate controlled low fat low cholesterol diet. hewas continued on nephrocaps. b12 and folate were normal.escription document: 4-8128309 emssten teldictated by: svobodny , terryattending: mcdanial , rickiedictation id 6569037d: 11/3/04t: 11/3/04