record date: 2087-09-11name:    justus, quianamrn:     9814048the patient comes in today for follow up of several medical problems. she has ahistory of type 2 diabetes. her sugars have not been optimally controlled. they areusually in the 190-200 range in the morning. her weight is stable. she has no lowerextremity numbness or weakness.  she has a history of hyperlipidemia. she stopped her lescol 2 weeks ago because itwas expensive. she also never increased the dose above 20 mg. she has had sideeffects with atorvastatin and pravastatin in the past. please see her allergy list inlmr.she has a half sister who had colon cancer at age 88. quiana has had rareoccasional blood streaking when she wipes herself after being constipated. she isaware of what a colonoscopy is but absolutely refuses a colonoscopy. she is awarethat she is at increased risk for colon cancer given her family history. she has nonausea, vomiting, diarrhea, melena or weight loss.she has chronic lower back pain and bilateral leg pain that is probably due to spinalstenosis. she has lower back pain and pain in her legs that is worse with walking. ithelps when she uses a carriage to walk around in the store. she denies lowerextremity numbness, change in her bowel or bladder, fevers or chills. her last mriwas done in walsenburg in a wide body machine and was consistent with spinal stenosis. she has taken ultram. she is aware that vioxx may increase people's risk for cardiacdisease and has stopped taking it. dr. yeager, her rheumatologist, referred her to dr.north in internal medicine for possible injections. physical exam: no acute distress. her blood pressure is 180/90. however, herdaughter,iyanna field, checks her blood pressure at home and it is very well controlled. the patient gets very anxious here in the clinic. neck supple without jvd or bruits.lungs clear without wheezes, rales or rhonchi. cardiac: rate regularly regular,normal s1, s2 without s3, s4 or murmurs. no c/c/e. distal pulses intact.assessment and plan:  (1)  type 2 diabetes. check hemoglobin a1c. continue current medications.(2)  hyperlipidemia. she should be on medication to keep her ldl below 100. she     said that she would resume the medication.(3)  hypertension which is never well controlled on her visits here. her daughter is     a nursing professional and does report that her blood pressure is very well controlled     in the 120/80 range when she checks at home. we will continue her current     regimen.(4)  lower back pain. probably secondary to spinal stenosis. she has an     appointment with dr. north.     ida xayachack, m.d.ix/delarosa/bishop