record #899882517492745 | enmco | 66624993 | | 1403698 | 10/6/2004 12:00:00 am | right foot ulcer | signed | dis | admission date: 11/20/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 9/19/2004attending: fredric hilario malick mdservice: vascular surgery service.history of present illness: this is a 61-year-old female with acomplicated past medical history notable for cva and peripheralvascular disease with chronic nonhealing foot ulcers. patientwas seen a week prior to her current admission in vascular clinicfor evaluation of nonhealing ulcers of the right foot and wassubsequently scheduled for a right lower extremity angiogram withsubsequent debridement planned shortly thereafter. two daysprior to admission , however , the staff at her rehabilitationfacility noted increasing erythema in the area of her ulcerassociated with increased complaints of pain from the patient.patient was subsequently referred to alstead medical emergency department for further evaluation andmanagement on 11/20/2004 . past medical history: coronary artery disease status post stentplacement in 1995 , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , peripheralvascular disease , seizure disorder , hypothyroidism , systemiclupus erythematous , anemia of chronic disease , history of strokewith right-sided hemiparesis since 1996 , and associated high toneand spasticity of the right lower extremity , history of subduralhematoma secondary to a fall , migraines , chronic pain syndrome ,narcotic dependency , interstitial lung disease secondary tolupus , bipolar disorder , chronic constipation.past surgical history: right cea in 1999 , craniotomy forsubdural hematoma in 1999.home medications: premarin 0.65 mg q.day , iron gluconate 300 mgp.o. q.day , folate 1 mg p.o. q.day , multivitamin p.o. q.day ,plaquenil 200 mg p.o. q.day , levoxyl200 mcg p.o. q.day , toprol-xl 50 mg p.o. q.day , lisinopril 10 mgp.o. q.day , nicotine patch 14 mcg topical , celexa 40 mg p.o.q.day , macrobid 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , sodium chloride tablets ,hydralazine 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. , ultram 25 mg p.o. q.h.s. ,neurontin 100 mg p.o. q.h.s. dilantin 200 mg p.o. q.a.m. , 100 mgp.o. q.afternoon , 200 p.o. q.p.m. lipitor10 mg p.o. q.day , advair diskus 500/50 1 puff b.i.d. , colace 100mg p.o. b.i.d. , zyprexa 5 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n.allergies: sulfa. question of allergy to levaquin.questionable history of adverse reactions to prozac , trazodone ,baclofen , and narcotics.social history: patient previously lived with husband. patienthas been wheelchair-dependent for the past four weeks due to herchronic ulcers. smokes 1-2 packs per day until approximatelyfour weeks prior to admission.physical examination in the emergency department: afebrile.heart rate 66 , blood pressure 110/48 , breathing 18 , satting 98%on room air. patient was noted to be in moderate distresssecondary to discomfort of her right lower extremity withassociated spasm and foot pain. patient's lungs were noted to beclear to auscultation bilaterally. a well-healed right cea scarwas noted on the patient's neck. patient's heart was noted tohave a regular rate and rhythm with no murmurs , rubs or gallops.patient's abdomen was noted to be soft , nondistended andnontender. extremity exam demonstrated a right leg with severeknee contracture and spasm. the left side was noted to benormal. the left foot was noted to have two small clean ulcers ,one on the medial bunion and one on the tip of the medial greattoe. the right foot was noted to have a large dark necroticpressure wound on the lateral aspect and plantar aspect of themid foot , an open infected-appearing ulcer was noted on themedial forefoot with surrounding erythema and a greenish exudateof film. pulse exam demonstrated 2+ pulses in bilateralcarotids , radials , and femorals. right popliteal biphasicdoppler pulses noted. no pulses were able to be distinguished inthe right foot. the left foot was noted to have biphasic signalsin the dp and pt by doppler.laboratory studies upon admission: sodium 136 , potassium 4.8 ,chloride 101 , bicarbonate 23 , bun 21 , creatinine 1.1 , glucose 74.alt was 36 , ast 33 , alk phos 173 , total bili 0.3 , albumin 4.0.white blood cell count was 9.6 , hematocrit 36.2 , and platelets232. pt 13.4 , ptt 28.1 , inr 1.0. chest x-ray demonstrated amild interstitial disease with multiple old right rib fractures.x-ray of the feet demonstrated bilateral osteopenia with noevidence of osteomyelitis in either foot. ekg was noted to benormal with a normal sinus rhythm at 63.hospital course: patient was admitted to the vascular surgeryservice on 11/20/2004 for further evaluation and management. shewas empirically started on vancomycin and ceftazidime withwet-to-dry dressings applied to her right foot wound. thepatient was also continued on her prior dose of macrobid forpreviously-diagnosed uti with her antibiotic regimen to bediscontinued for this purpose on 1/0/2004 .  an angiogramperformed on hospital day #2 , revealed a right external iliacocclusion which was stented near the bifurcation of the internaland external iliac vessels. a distal stenosis of the externaliliac was opened with balloon angioplasty to good effect. thepatient sustained a mild groin hematoma on the left at the accesssite but had no change in her pulse exam there afterwards.following her angiogram and percutaneous intervention , thepatient was noted to demonstrate excellent right lower extremitydp and pt pulses which remained palpable through the duration ofher hospital course. on hospital day #3 , the patient was broughtto the operating room for debridement of her right foot. for adetailed description of the patient's operative procedure , pleasethe relevant operative note. patient tolerated the procedurewell and during the procedure , the patient's ulcer base was foundto be contiguous with the first metatarsal head periosteum , andtherefore , a metatarsal head excision was performed. thepatient's great toe was left in place with moderate debridementof the deep tissues. the ulcers on the lateral right foot werenot debrided at this time. following her procedure , the patientwas empirically continued on vancomycin and ceftazidime. heroperative cultures subsequently grew out coagulase-negative staphwhich was sensitive to both keflex and vancomycin. at thispoint , the patient was switched to vancomycin therapy only andwas continued on vac therapy through postoperative day #3. atthis point , the patient's vac dressing was changed to demonstratea well-vascularized actively bleeding wound with granulationtissue and no signs of wound necrosis. the patient remained instable condition through postoperative day #7 at which point , shewas returned to the operating room for a great toe amputation anddefinitive closure of her right foot wound. for a detaileddescription of this operative procedure , please see the relevantoperative note. the patient tolerated the procedure well and wassubsequently returned to the regular outpatient floor where sheremained for the duration of her stay. a general overview of thepatient's hospital course by system is as follows:1. neurological: the patient demonstrated significant issueswith pain control for the duration of her stay. a fair amount ofher pain was determined to be secondary to her right foot ulcer;however , the patient was also noted to have significant painassociated with her contracted right lower extremity. for atime , the patient was placed in a right lower extremity extensionbrace which provided some measure of relief; however , uponregular examination of her right lower extremity , it was notedthat she was gradually developing pressure ulcers secondary tothe extension brace. a neurology and pain service consultationwas obtained and the patient was subsequently recommended forzanaflex therapy which subsequently improved her pain controldramatically. the patient otherwise remained intact from aneurological perspective for the duration of her stay ,demonstrating frequent emotional ability consistent with herbaseline examination.2. cardiovascular: the patient remained stable from acardiovascular perspective for the duration of her stay with noevidence of acute hemodynamic instability or compromise. at nopoint did she demonstrate evidence of acute myocardial ischemiaor infarction.3. pulmonary: the patient remained stable from a pulmonaryperspective for the duration of her stay with no evidence ofacute respiratory decompensation.4. gi: the patient remained stable from a gastrointestinalstandpoint for the duration of her stay and was noted to betolerant of both solid and liquid oral intake. upon discharge ,she was noted to be tolerant of both solid and liquid p.o. intakeand was noted to be independently productive of adequate amountsof stool and flatus.5. gu: as described previously , the patient was admitted with aknown diagnosis of a urinary tract infection. she was continuedon macrobid therapy through 1/0/2004 , at which point thistherapy was discontinued. subsequent follow-up urinalysesdemonstrated no further evidence of urinary tract infection.upon completion of her macrobid antibiotic course , the patient'sfoley catheter was removed and she was noted to be independentlyproductive of adequate amounts of urine for the duration of herstay. she at no point demonstrated any evidence of acute renalcompromise or electrolyte imbalance.6. heme: the patient remained stable with a stable hematocritfor the duration of her stay. she was started on plavix therapyfollowing her angiogram , on which she remains at the time of herdischarge. dvt prophylaxis was provided via subcutaneous heparinfor the duration of her stay.7. id: as stated above , the patient's operative cultures werenoted to grow coag.-negative staph , sensitive to both vancomycinand keflex. for the majority of her stay , the patient remainedon vancomycin therapy but was transitioned to keflex on2/23/2004 , on which she remained for the duration of her stay.at the time of discharge , the patient has been instructed tocomplete an additional 10-day course of keflex therapy. of note ,the patient remained afebrile with a stable white count for theduration of her stay and her wound exam demonstrated no evidenceof further infection at the ulcer site.8. endocrine: the patient maintained adequately well-controlledblood sugars for the duration of her stay with no evidence ofacute endocrinological compromise. the patient was subsequentlycleared for discharge to a rehabilitation facility onpostoperative days 10 and 3 , 9/19/2004 , with instructions forfollow up.condition on discharge: patient is to be discharged to arehabilitation facility with instructions for follow up.status at discharge: stable.discharge diagnosis: nonhealing right foot ulcer status postdebridement and closure with an angiogram and angioplasty. cva ,seizure disorder , depression , hypothyroidism , anemia of chronicdisease , sle , interstitial lung disease , hypertension , migraines ,subdural hematoma status post fall , hypercholesterolemia , statuspost right cea , craniotomy and coronary stenting.discharge medications: tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. , aspirin325 mg p.o. q.day , dulcolax 10 mg pr q.day p.r.n. , colace 100 mgp.o. b.i.d. , epogen 40 , 000 units sc q.week , iron 325 mg p.o.b.i.d. , folate 1 mg p.o. q.day , heparin 5000 units sc b.i.d. ,dilaudid 0.5-1 mg iv q.4h. p.r.n. for pain , dilaudid 4-8 mg p.o.q.3h. p.r.n. for pain , plaquenil 200 mg p.o. q.day , levoxyl 200mcg p.o. q.day , lisinopril 10 mg p.o. q.day , ativan 1 mg p.o.q.h.s. p.r.n. , milk of magnesia 30 ml p.o. q.day p.r.n. , reglan10 mg iv q.6h. p.r.n. , nicotine 10 mg per day topical patchq.24h. , dilantin 200 mg p.o. t.i.d. , senna tablets 1-2 tabletsp.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. , multivitamin 1 tab p.o. q.day , keflex 500 mgp.o. q.i.d. x 40 doses , toprol-xl 50 mg p.o. q.day , neurontin 300mg p.o. q.h.s. , ultram25 mg p.o. q.8h. p.r.n. , oxycontin 40 mg p.o. q.12h. , zyprexa 5mg sl q.h.s. , plavix75 mg p.o. q.day , celexa 40 mg p.o. q.day , zanflex 4 mg p.o.t.i.d. , advair diskus 500/50 1 puff inhaled b.i.d. , duoneb 3/0.5mg inhaled q.6h. p.r.n. , maalox 1-2 tablets p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. forupset stomach.discharge instructions:1. patient is to maintain her incision sites clean and dry atall times.2. the patient may shower but should pat dry her incisionsafterwards; no bathing or swimming until further notice.3. no driving while taking prescription narcotic medications.4. patient may resume a regular diet.5. patient is to limit physical exercise; no heavy exertion.6. patient is to follow up with dr. jewel craffey within 7-10days; the patient is to call to schedule an appointment.escription document: 1-7191722 lmssten teldictated by: spaid , winfordattending: degollado , tracy lesleydictation id 6445752d: 6/22/04t: 6/22/04attending: pasquale allen gayo mdservice: vascular surgery service.history of present illness: this is a 61-year-old female with acomplicated past medical history notable for cva and peripheralvascular disease with chronic nonhealing foot ulcers. patientwas seen a week prior to her current admission in vascular clinicfor evaluation of nonhealing ulcers of the right foot and wassubsequently scheduled for a right lower extremity angiogram withsubsequent debridement planned shortly thereafter. two daysprior to admission , however , the staff at her rehabilitationfacility noted increasing erythema in the area of her ulcerassociated with increased complaints of pain from the patient.patient was subsequently referred to the naforest caview university medical center emergency department for further evaluation andmanagement on 11/20/2004 . past medical history: coronary artery disease status post stentplacement in 1995 , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , peripheralvascular disease , seizure disorder , hypothyroidism , systemiclupus erythematous , anemia of chronic disease , history of strokewith right-sided hemiparesis since 1996 , and associated high toneand spasticity of the right lower extremity , history of subduralhematoma secondary to a fall , migraines , chronic pain syndrome ,narcotic dependency , interstitial lung disease secondary tolupus , bipolar disorder , chronic constipation.past surgical history: right cea in 1999 , craniotomy forsubdural hematoma in 1999.home medications: premarin 0.65 mg q.day , iron gluconate 300 mgp.o. q.day , folate 1 mg p.o. q.day , multivitamin p.o. q.day ,plaquenil 200 mg p.o. q.day , levoxyl200 mcg p.o. q.day , toprol-xl 50 mg p.o. q.day , lisinopril 10 mgp.o. q.day , nicotine patch 14 mcg topical , celexa 40 mg p.o.q.day , macrobid 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , sodium chloride tablets ,hydralazine 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. , ultram 25 mg p.o. q.h.s. ,neurontin 100 mg p.o. q.h.s. dilantin 200 mg p.o. q.a.m. , 100 mgp.o. q.afternoon , 200 p.o. q.p.m. lipitor10 mg p.o. q.day , advair diskus 500/50 1 puff b.i.d. , colace 100mg p.o. b.i.d. , zyprexa 5 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n.allergies: sulfa. question of allergy to levaquin.questionable history of adverse reactions to prozac , trazodone ,baclofen , and narcotics.social history: patient previously lived with husband. patienthas been wheelchair-dependent for the past four weeks due to herchronic ulcers. smokes 1-2 packs per day until approximatelyfour weeks prior to admission.physical examination in the emergency department: afebrile.heart rate 66 , blood pressure 110/48 , breathing 18 , satting 98%on room air. patient was noted to be in moderate distresssecondary to discomfort of her right lower extremity withassociated spasm and foot pain. patient's lungs were noted to beclear to auscultation bilaterally. a well-healed right cea scarwas noted on the patient's neck. patient's heart was noted tohave a regular rate and rhythm with no murmurs , rubs or gallops.patient's abdomen was noted to be soft , nondistended andnontender. extremity exam demonstrated a right leg with severeknee contracture and spasm. the left side was noted to benormal. the left foot was noted to have two small clean ulcers ,one on the medial bunion and one on the tip of the medial greattoe. the right foot was noted to have a large dark necroticpressure wound on the lateral aspect and plantar aspect of themid foot , an open infected-appearing ulcer was noted on themedial forefoot with surrounding erythema and a greenish exudateof film. pulse exam demonstrated 2+ pulses in bilateralcarotids , radials , and femorals. right popliteal biphasicdoppler pulses noted. no pulses were able to be distinguished inthe right foot. the left foot was noted to have biphasic signalsin the dp and pt by doppler.laboratory studies upon admission: sodium 136 , potassium 4.8 ,chloride 101 , bicarbonate 23 , bun 21 , creatinine 1.1 , glucose 74.alt was 36 , ast 33 , alk phos 173 , total bili 0.3 , albumin 4.0.white blood cell count was 9.6 , hematocrit 36.2 , and platelets232. pt 13.4 , ptt 28.1 , inr 1.0. chest x-ray demonstrated amild interstitial disease with multiple old right rib fractures.x-ray of the feet demonstrated bilateral osteopenia with noevidence of osteomyelitis in either foot. ekg was noted to benormal with a normal sinus rhythm at 63.hospital course: patient was admitted to the vascular surgeryservice on 11/20/2004 for further evaluation and management. shewas empirically started on vancomycin and ceftazidime withwet-to-dry dressings applied to her right foot wound. thepatient was also continued on her prior dose of macrobid forpreviously-diagnosed uti with her antibiotic regimen to bediscontinued for this purpose on 1/0/2004 .  an angiogramperformed on hospital day #2 , revealed a right external iliacocclusion which was stented near the bifurcation of the internaland external iliac vessels. a distal stenosis of the externaliliac was opened with balloon angioplasty to good effect. thepatient sustained a mild groin hematoma on the left at the accesssite but had no change in her pulse exam there afterwards.following her angiogram and percutaneous intervention , thepatient was noted to demonstrate excellent right lower extremitydp and pt pulses which remained palpable through the duration ofher hospital course. on hospital day #3 , the patient was broughtto the operating room for debridement of her right foot. for adetailed description of the patient's operative procedure , pleasethe relevant operative note. patient tolerated the procedurewell and during the procedure , the patient's ulcer base was foundto be contiguous with the first metatarsal head periosteum , andtherefore , a metatarsal head excision was performed. thepatient's great toe was left in place with moderate debridementof the deep tissues. the ulcers on the lateral right foot werenot debrided at this time. following her procedure , the patientwas empirically continued on vancomycin and ceftazidime. heroperative cultures subsequently grew out coagulase-negative staphwhich was sensitive to both keflex and vancomycin. at thispoint , the patient was switched to vancomycin therapy only andwas continued on vac therapy through postoperative day #3. atthis point , the patient's vac dressing was changed to demonstratea well-vascularized actively bleeding wound with granulationtissue and no signs of wound necrosis. the patient remained instable condition through postoperative day #7 at which point , shewas returned to the operating room for a great toe amputation anddefinitive closure of her right foot wound. for a detaileddescription of this operative procedure , please see the relevantoperative note. the patient tolerated the procedure well and wassubsequently returned to the regular outpatient floor where sheremained for the duration of her stay. a general overview of thepatient's hospital course by system is as follows:1. neurological: the patient demonstrated significant issueswith pain control for the duration of her stay. a fair amount ofher pain was determined to be secondary to her right foot ulcer;however , the patient was also noted to have significant painassociated with her contracted right lower extremity. for atime , the patient was placed in a right lower extremity extensionbrace which provided some measure of relief; however , uponregular examination of her right lower extremity , it was notedthat she was gradually developing pressure ulcers secondary tothe extension brace. a neurology and pain service consultationwas obtained and the patient was subsequently recommended forzanaflex therapy which subsequently improved her pain controldramatically. the patient otherwise remained intact from aneurological perspective for the duration of her stay ,demonstrating frequent emotional ability consistent with herbaseline examination.2. cardiovascular: the patient remained stable from acardiovascular perspective for the duration of her stay with noevidence of acute hemodynamic instability or compromise. at nopoint did she demonstrate evidence of acute myocardial ischemiaor infarction.3. pulmonary: the patient remained stable from a pulmonaryperspective for the duration of her stay with no evidence ofacute respiratory decompensation.4. gi: the patient remained stable from a gastrointestinalstandpoint for the duration of her stay and was noted to betolerant of both solid and liquid oral intake. upon discharge ,she was noted to be tolerant of both solid and liquid p.o. intakeand was noted to be independently productive of adequate amountsof stool and flatus.5. gu: as described previously , the patient was admitted with aknown diagnosis of a urinary tract infection. she was continuedon macrobid therapy through 1/0/2004 , at which point thistherapy was discontinued. subsequent follow-up urinalysesdemonstrated no further evidence of urinary tract infection.upon completion of her macrobid antibiotic course , the patient'sfoley catheter was removed and she was noted to be independentlyproductive of adequate amounts of urine for the duration of herstay. she at no point demonstrated any evidence of acute renalcompromise or electrolyte imbalance.6. heme: the patient remained stable with a stable hematocritfor the duration of her stay. she was started on plavix therapyfollowing her angiogram , on which she remains at the time of herdischarge. dvt prophylaxis was provided via subcutaneous heparinfor the duration of her stay.7. id: as stated above , the patient's operative cultures werenoted to grow coag.-negative staph , sensitive to both vancomycinand keflex. for the majority of her stay , the patient remainedon vancomycin therapy but was transitioned to keflex on2/23/2004 , on which she remained for the duration of her stay.at the time of discharge , the patient has been instructed tocomplete an additional 10-day course of keflex therapy. of note ,the patient remained afebrile with a stable white count for theduration of her stay and her wound exam demonstrated no evidenceof further infection at the ulcer site.8. endocrine: the patient maintained adequately well-controlledblood sugars for the duration of her stay with no evidence ofacute endocrinological compromise. the patient was subsequentlycleared for discharge to a rehabilitation facility onpostoperative days 10 and 3 , 9/19/2004 , with instructions forfollow up.condition on discharge: patient is to be discharged to arehabilitation facility with instructions for follow up.status at discharge: stable.discharge diagnosis: nonhealing right foot ulcer status postdebridement and closure with an angiogram and angioplasty. cva ,seizure disorder , depression , hypothyroidism , anemia of chronicdisease , sle , interstitial lung disease , hypertension , migraines ,subdural hematoma status post fall , hypercholesterolemia , statuspost right cea , craniotomy and coronary stenting.discharge medications: tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. , aspirin325 mg p.o. q.day , dulcolax 10 mg pr q.day p.r.n. , colace 100 mgp.o. b.i.d. , epogen 40 , 000 units sc q.week , iron 325 mg p.o.b.i.d. , folate 1 mg p.o. q.day , heparin 5000 units sc b.i.d. ,dilaudid 0.5-1 mg iv q.4h. p.r.n. for pain , dilaudid 4-8 mg p.o.q.3h. p.r.n. for pain , plaquenil 200 mg p.o. q.day , levoxyl 200mcg p.o. q.day , lisinopril 10 mg p.o. q.day , ativan 1 mg p.o.q.h.s. p.r.n. , milk of magnesia 30 ml p.o. q.day p.r.n. , reglan10 mg iv q.6h. p.r.n. , nicotine 10 mg per day topical patchq.24h. , dilantin 200 mg p.o. t.i.d. , senna tablets 1-2 tabletsp.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. , multivitamin 1 tab p.o. q.day , keflex 500 mgp.o. q.i.d. x 40 doses , toprol-xl 50 mg p.o. q.day , neurontin 300mg p.o. q.h.s. , ultram25 mg p.o. q.8h. p.r.n. , oxycontin 40 mg p.o. q.12h. , zyprexa 5mg sl q.h.s. , plavix75 mg p.o. q.day , celexa 40 mg p.o. q.day , zanflex 4 mg p.o.t.i.d. , advair diskus 500/50 1 puff inhaled b.i.d. , duoneb 3/0.5mg inhaled q.6h. p.r.n. , maalox 1-2 tablets p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. forupset stomach.discharge instructions:1. patient is to maintain her incision sites clean and dry atall times.2. the patient may shower but should pat dry her incisionsafterwards; no bathing or swimming until further notice.3. no driving while taking prescription narcotic medications.4. patient may resume a regular diet.5. patient is to limit physical exercise; no heavy exertion.6. patient is to follow up with dr. garrett buckner within 7-10days; the patient is to call to schedule an appointment.escription document: 1-7191722 lmssten teldictated by: cassidy , hunterattending: barentine , ernesto victordictation id 6445752d: 6/22/04t: 6/22/04[report_end]