025294336 | ndh | 23778452 | | 089609 | 10/9/1997 12:00:00 am | inferior myocardial infarction | signed | dis | admission date: 10/9/1997 report status: signeddischarge date: 4/14/1997discharge diagnosis: myocardial infarction.problem list: 1 ) status post acute myocardial infarction.2 ) prostate cancer diagnosed 8/21 status postradiation therapy.history of present illness: patient is a 69 year old man withoutprior cardiac history. he had cardiacrisk factors including possible hypertension and possible historyof hypercholesterolemia. the patient had had a history of atypicalchest pain including cardiac work-up in the past with an echo in1995 showing concentric left ventricular hypertrophy withasymmetric septal hypertrophy. he had a normal ejection fractionat this time. in 8/7 , he had an exercise tolerance test at whichtime he went eight minutes with a maximal heart rate of 151 ,maximum blood pressure of 226/90 , and no ekg changes. at 2 p.m. onthe day of admission , he developed substernal chest pain withcrushing tightness radiating to both shoulders and his jaw. he wasnot short of breath. he experienced this pain on and off throughthe afternoon although the pain was never completely gone. at 6p.m. , he became acutely worse and at that time , called the emt andwas brought to the agund hospital emergencydepartment. within the emergency department , the patient was notedto have st elevations in the inferior leads. he was enrolled inthe tonschaptech medical center trial. infusion was begun at 8:15. the patient wasgiven lopressor , oxygen , morphine , aspirin , and heparin. he didnot drop his pressure with the sublingual nitroglycerin.past medical history: included prostate cancer in 8/21 statuspost x-ray therapy as well as a possibletransient ischemic attack in 1990.allergies: the patient had no known drug allergies.current medications: zantac p.r.n.family history: negative for coronary artery disease.social history: the patient was married with three children and hedenied any tobacco or alcohol use.physical examination: on admission demonstrated a well appearingblack male in no acute distress. his vitalsigns were a heart rate of 48 , blood pressure 83/30 in theemergency department , and he was afebrile with oxygen saturation of99% on two liters. heent: examination showed oropharynx benignand he had a left facial droop. neck: supple , 2+ carotids withoutbruit , and jugular venous pressure was normal. chest: clear toauscultation bilaterally. heart: had a regular bradycardic rhythmwith a ii/vi systolic ejection murmur. abdomen: soft , nontender ,and nondistended with positive normal bowel sounds and noorganomegaly. extremities: warm , well perfused , and no clubbing ,cyanosis , or edema with trace distal pulses. neurological: he wasalert and oriented times three , cranial nerves ii-xii were grosslyintact except for a left facial droop , and motor and sensory weregrossly intact.laboratory examination: on admission showed a sodium of 144 ,potassium 4.2 , chloride 108 , bicarbonate22 , bun 16 , creatinine 1.3 , glucose 136 , white count was 8 with ahematocrit of 35 , platelets were 239 , ck was 276 with an mb of 0.8 ,troponin on admission was 0.0 , inr was 1.0 , and ptt was 22.6.patient's first ekg in the emergency department showed normal sinusrhythm at 70 with first degree av block , axis of 56 degrees , he hadst elevations of 4 mm in leads iii and avf and 3 mm in ii , and stdepression of 0.5 to 3 mm in v2 through v5 , i , and avl. chestx-ray did not show acute disease in the emergency department.hospital course: within the emergency department , the patientinitially had resolution of his ekg changes buthad persistent jaw pain remaining at 10/25 .  he was taken tocatheterization which demonstrated a mid right coronary arterylesion of approximately 95% with a clot but with timi 3 flow. nointervention was done at that time. patient initially requiredvigorous intravenous hydration to maintain good blood pressure butremained essentially stable and pain free. he had a drop in hishematocrit from 35 on admission to 28 after his catheterizationsecondary to blood loss at the right femoral triple-lumen siteplaced in the emergency ward prior to tpa , blood loss atcatheterization , small hematoma , and dilution. he was given twounits of packed red blood cells with an appropriate bump in hishematocrit. the patient was then transferred to the floor where hemaintained his good course. he had no postcatheterization orpostmyocardial infarction chest pain. the decision was then madeto take the patient back to the catheterization laboratory to haveptca with stenting of his lesion and to see if it continued topersist. the patient was taken on the day prior to discharge backto the catheterization laboratory where he was successfullyangioplastied and stented. immediately on returning to the floor ,the patient did have a rigor postcatheterization but he remainedafebrile and did well over the remainder of his hospital course.it was felt that the rigor was probably related to allergicreaction to the dye as he was treated with benadryl and steroidswithout complication.disposition: the patient will have visiting nurse services. hewill have blood drawn to check platelets in two daysas he had a fall in his platelet level to 60 after theadministration of the reapro. he will also need follow-up cbc intwo and four weeks because he is on ticlid.discharge medications: enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. ,lopressor 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. , sublingualnitroglycerin p.r.n. chest pain , axid 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , andticlid 250 mg p.o. b.i.d. to complete a two week course.follow-up: the patient will follow-up with dr. marvin snachez ,cardiologist with eanh .  he will have echocardiogramdone on his first hospital visit. the patient will also follow-upwith dr. lorenzo campoverde in the clinical trial center as follow-up forhis participation in the oerd hospital study.dictated by: peter krenz , m.d. oj18attending: lester theo bebout , m.d. nk6  eg097/8025batch: 48506 index no. chkeo54nuz d: 4/26/97t: 3/30/97