admission date :2009-06-23discharge date :2009-07-12date of birth :1926-02-07sex :mservice :cmi ; then to medcine ; then transferred to ccuchief complaint :renal failure .history of present illness :the patient is an 83-year-old male with a history of diabetes mellitus , steroid-treated polymyalgia rheumatica , hypertension , benign prostatic hypertrophy , and high cholesterol who presented for a lower extremity peripheral angiography for bilateral foot ulcers , and he was found to an evaluated blood urea nitrogen , and creatinine , and potassium .the patient notes he developed worsening foot pain and ulcers four months ago .due to his worsening blood glucose , he was started on insulin .his foot ulcers continued to develop , and the patient complained of pain in his feet ; primarily at night .the patient was referred to for vascular consultation because of the ulcerations and pain and scheduled for a lowerextremity angiography on the day of admission , but due to his renal failure the procedure was cancelled .the patient showed peaked t waves on electrocardiogram , and he was transferred to medicine .the patient denied any oliguria , hematuria , dysuria , foamy urine , flank pain , abdominal pain , or urinary hesitancy .he has complained of fatigue , anorexia , and a 10-pound weight loss in the last four months .he gets short of breath with one flight of stairs .he denies any fevers , chills , recent infections , chest pain , orthopnea , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , hematemesis , melena , or hematochezia .the patient also notes he has had hoarseness for the last two to three weeks .past medical history :1. diabetes mellitus times four years ; recently started insulin and metformin due to his concurrent steroid use .last hemoglobin a1c was 11.4 .2. polymyalgia rheumatica diagnosed four years ago ; on steroids .3. benign prostatic hypertrophy , status post transurethral resection of prostate .4. hypertension .5. high cholesterol .6. lower extremity edema .medications on admission :methylprednisolone 4 mg q. a.m. and 2 mg p.o. q.h.s. , spironolactone 50 mg p.o. q.d. , metformin 1500 mg p.o. q.h.s. , pravastatin 10 mg p.o. q.h.s. , lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q. a.m. , lasix 80 mg p.o. q. a.m. , tylenol as needed , insulin regular 22 units in the morning and 12 units at night ( lispro regular ).allergies :no known drug allergies .family history :type 1 diabetes in twin brother , type 2 diabetes in mother and brother .social history :the patient is a former smoker ; he quit 50 years ago .he drinks one glass of wine per night .he is married and lives with his wife .john was in the army during world war ii .physical examination on presentation :on admission , temperature was 98.1 , blood pressure was 140/70 , pulse was 95 , respiratory rate was 18 , oxygen saturation was 98% on room air .in general , the patient was a thin white male , lying in bed , in no acute distress , with a hoarse voice .head , eyes , ears , nose , and throat revealed pupils were equally round and reactive to light and accommodation .extraocular movements were intact .sclerae were anicteric .mucous membranes were moist .neck revealed no lymphadenopathy .no thyromegaly .no jugular venous distention .cardiovascular examination revealed a regular rate and rhythm .normal first heart sound and second heart sound .a 2/6 systolic murmur at the upper sternal border .lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally with faint lower lobe crackles on the left .back revealed no costovertebral angle tenderness .the abdomen was soft and nontender .no rebound or guarding .no hepatosplenomegaly .extremities revealed 2+ femoral pulses bilaterally , 1+ dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally .no lower extremity edema .left foot with a dry crusted ulcer over the medial aspect of the first metatarsal head and the lateral posterior heel .on the right foot dry crusted ulcer over the medial aspect of the first metatarsal head and medial posterior heel .neurologic examination was grossly intact .pertinent laboratory data on presentation :on admission , white blood cell count was 11 , hematocrit was 30 , platelets were 269 .sodium was 139 , potassium was 6.1 , chloride was 102 , bicarbonate was 18 , blood urea nitrogen was 100 , creatinine was 2.3 , and blood glucose was 189 .fena was 0.37 .radiology / imaging :renal ultrasound was normal .hospital course :the patient is an 83 - year-old male with a history of diabetes , steroid-treated polymyalgia rheumatica , hypertension , benign prostatic hypertrophy , and high cholesterol without presented to the hospital for lower extremity angiograph ; however , that was deferred due to new onset renal failure .1. renal failure :the patient was initially thought to be prerenal , and his renal status improved after hydration and increased oral intake .he did have a magnetic resonance angiography of his kidneys which showed mild right-sided renal artery stenosis .his renal function fluctuated throughout his hospital stay , and when he was in the medical intensive care unit he did have decreased urine output in the setting of cardiogenic shock .2. cardiovascular :the patient with severe peripheral vascular disease .during his hospital stay , he developed some nonsustained ventricular tachycardia .he also became hypotensive on 07-02 in the setting of infection .the patient had a central line placed and went into sustained ventricular tachycardia that was treated with lidocaine .after being treated with lidocaine , the patient became apneic requiring intubation and transfer to the coronary care unit .his nonsustained ventricular tachycardia was treated with a lidocaine drip .it was found that he had elevated troponins and likely an ischemic event on the 07-02 .a repeat echocardiogram showed a decreased ejection fraction from prior .he had a cardiac catheterization which revealed 3-vessel disease .cardiothoracic surgery was consulted , and due to the patient 's acute illness , they wanted to re-evaluate after the patient was extubated .the patient continued to have intermittent episodes of ventricular tachycardia .he was continued on lidocaine and eventually changed over to amiodarone .he was noted to be cardiogenic shock requiring pressors .of note , he likely suffered a second ischemic event during his coronary care unit stay .the patient did have a swan-ganz catheter in place and had a low cardiac output .the patient 's family eventually decided to withdraw care , and the patient was extubated and passed away on 2009-07-12 .2. infectious disease :the patient was initially treated with levofloxacin for a left lower lobe infiltrate and a urinary tract infection .he then developed positive blood cultures with staphylococcus aureus sensitive to levofloxacin , and that was continued .when the patient became hypotensive and required intubation and pressors , his antibiotics were broadened , and he was put on stress-dose steroids .he was found to have bilateral staphylococcus pneumonia .3. pulmonary :the patient required intubation in the setting of hypotension and ventricular tachycardia .he was actually extubated on 07-09 , but then reintubated one hour later due to hypoxia .he was also found to have a bilateral staphylococcus pneumonia .discharge disposition :on 07-12 , after and extensive family meeting , the family decided to extubate the patient and make him comfortable , and he passed away at 5:20 on 2009-07-12 .hattie l breaux , m.d.33-679dictated by : larry w. nagy , m.d.medquist36d : 2009-12-03 09:18t : 2009-12-08 10:47job #:32151signed electronically by : dr. stephanie francis on : tue 2009-12-08 4:59 pm( end of report )