851842962fih618594423763/49880527109/14/1993 12:00:00 amleft femoral neck fracture .unsigneddisreport status :unsignedadmission date :9-14-93discharge date :9-26-93principal diagnosis :left femoral neck fracture .history of present illness :the patient is an 80 year old white female from roarl who has been recently followed by dr. nygarthxi anoun of noughwell entanbon health , phone no. 937-392-3033 .the patient apparently sustained a fall on 9/14/93 , while she was taking out her garbage .the patient fell onto her left side , on trying to climb one step .the patient attempted to rise to a standing position , but again fell onto her left lower extremity .she experienced excruciating pain .the patient was taken to noughwell entanbon health where she was evaluated by dr. anoun in the emergency room .plain films of the left hip revealed a left femoral neck fracture .workup also revealed a fracture of the left ninth rib .the patient was transferred to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital via ambulance at the family &apos;s request , for further workup and definitive care .past medical history :significant for hypertension , and peptic ulcer disease .past surgical history :significant for [ 1 ] status post cholecystectomy .[ 2 ] status post appendectomy ,[ 3 ] status post carpal tunnel release in the left wrist .[ 4 ] status post hysterectomy .medications on admission :inderal 20 mg. p.o. t.i.d. and prilosec 20 mg. p.o. q.d.allergies :no known drug allergies .social history :the patient is an 80 year old female who lives alone in li .she is a recent widow .she does not consume alcohol , nor does she smoke .physical examination :in general , the patient was a pleasant elderly woman , somewhat depressed in affect .she was resting supine with her left lower extremity shortened and externally rotated .the blood pressure was 118/76 and heart rate was 96 .heent exam revealed the patient to be normocephalic , atraumatic .the pupils equal , round , reactive to light .the neck was supple , with no thyromegaly .there was no jugular venous distention or carotid bruits noted .the lungs were clear to auscultation .the heart exam revealed a regular rate and rhythm .the abdomen was soft and nontender and nondistended , with normoactive bowel sounds .exam of the left lower extremity revealed evidence of degenerative joint disease .she was unable to move her left leg due to severe pain in the left groin and hip region .she had sensation intact to light touch and pinprick throughout the l1 through s1 distribution .the motor exam was 5/5 in strength of the ehl , fhl , tibialis anterior .the right lower extremity was unremarkable .both upper extremities had full range of motion .dorsalis and posterior tibial artery pulses were 2+ bilaterally .laboratory data :hematocrit 43.4 , white blood count 17.2 , platelet count 216,000 .electrolytes were within normal limits .pt and ptt were 9.6 and 28.4 respectively .a chest xray was performed and returned clear .an ekg revealed an old anteroseptal mi , but no acute ischemia .hospital course :the patient was admitted to the orthopedic service for treatment of a nondisplaced fracture of the left femoral neck .she consented to hemiarthroplasty of her left hip .hospital course :the patient was admitted to the fairm of ijordcompmac hospital orthopedic service on 9/14/93 .the patient was brought to the operating room on 9/15/93 at which time she underwent a left bipolar hemiarthroplasty .the estimated blood loss was 300 cc .postoperatively the patient was noted to have tolerated the procedure well .the postop hematocrit was 40 .she was started on coumadin for deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis .she was administered 48 hours of i.v. antibiotics .over the next several hospital days , the patient continued to do well .by postoperative day # 2 the patient complained of some mild abdominal discomfort .she was alert and oriented .her maximal temperature was 100.4 .her lungs were clear and her abdomen was soft and nontender .she remained neurovascularly intact in her left lower extremity .her hematocrit at this time was 35.4 .her hemovac drains were discontinued .her dressing was changed at this time and the wound was noted to be clean with mild serous drainage .by postop day # 3 , the patient &apos;s maximal temperature was 100.2 , vital signs were stable .her hematocrit at this time was 30.1 .her sodium was 133 .she remained neurovascularly intact in her left lower extremity .the physical therapy service was consulted and she was started on weight bearing as tolerated , transfers from bed to chair and gait training as tolerated .by postoperative day # 4 , the patient &apos;s gastric distress symptoms resolved .she was tolerating a moderate p.o. intake .her maximal temperature was 99 degrees .the patient was evaluated by the psychiatry service for depression .it was their impression that the patient was suffering from a major depression and subsequently prescribed dexamphetamine 2.5 mg p.o. q. a.m. which they slowly advanced to 5 mg. p.o. q. a.m. as tolerated .they also prescribed 0.5 mg. p.o. q. h.s. to help the patient sleep at night .the patient &apos;s wound remained clean and dry at this time .she was able to stand with the assistance of physical therapy and the use of a walker .on the evening of 9/21/93 , the patient was noted to have developed significant confusion .she was disoriented as to place and time .her temperature was 99 , and vital signs were stable .her lungs were clear and heart continued to reveal a regular rate and rhythm .her wound remained benign .white blood count was 19.9 , and her hematocrit was 35.8 .she was therapeutic on coumadin at this time with a pt of 16.3 .the urinalysis revealed positive white blood cells with 20-50 white cells per hpf .the urine culture subsequently returned positive for e. coli .the patient was taken off all of her bowel medications and sleeping medications .she was maintained only on her prilosec and propranolol .a blood gas on room air revealed a p02 of 70% with a ph of 7.52 , and a bicarb of 36 .sodium was 135 and potassium was 4.0 .a chest xray revealed clear lung fields and a normal heart size .an electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm with a rate of 90 , and no ischemic changes when compared to her preop ekg .the patient was started on two liters of oxygen by nasal prong .through the course of the next 24 hours , the patient became more oriented and less anxious .she remained essentially afebrile .the vital signs remained stable and her wound remained benign .the patient was started on bactrim for e coli urinary tract infection .she was prescribed a 5-7 day course of bactrim .on postoperative day 8 the patient was alert and oriented x 3 .she was transferring from bed to chair with the use of a walker and taking a few steps with the assistance of physical therapy .her hematocrit was 30.9 and her electrolytes were within normal limits .on postoperative day # 10 the patient underwent noninvasive vascular studies by ultrasound of her lower extremities .these returned negative for deep venous thrombosis .she was accepted for transfer to the kingganmonttri- medical center in gocapeque , maryland , as this was in close proximity to the rest of her family .medications on discharge :bactrim ds one p.o. b.i.d. , to end on 9/28/93 .prilosec 20 mg. p.o. q.d. propranolol 20 mg. p.o. t.i.d. darvocet one to two p.o. q. 4 hrs. p.r.n. coumadin q.h.s. , to keep the patient &apos;s pt between 15 and 16 , for a total of two more weeks .dexamphetamine 2.5 mg. p.o. q. a.m. for depression .the patient &apos;s staples should be removed on 9/29/93 .she has been instructed to follow up with dr. li rhalttland in approximately four to six weeks time .current weight bearing status is weight bearing as tolerated with dislocation precautions applied to her left hip .she is discharged in stable condition to the rehabilitation facility .there were no complications during this admission .lenni breutzoln , m.d.tr :fe / bmotdd :9-25-93td :09/25/93cc :li rhalttland , m.d.