961329146 | cmc | 05611308 | | 9582937 | 1/1/2004 12:00:00 am | ischemic colitis | signed | dis | admission date: 6/19/2004 report status: signeddischarge date: 10/18/2004attending: wally tylwalk m.d.chief complaint:nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea.history of present illness:this 81-year-old female with diabetes mellitus , hypertension , andatrial fibrillation presents with nausea , vomiting , left lowerquadrant pain for one day and chronic nonbloody diarrhea on6/23/04. the patient has had diarrhea for years , but thisepisode was more severe and it was accompanied by nausea andvomiting. upon evaluation , she was found to have heme negativestool. an abdominal ct showed a focal segment of colitis at thesplenic flexure with significant atheromatous disease of the sma.findings were worrisome for mesenteric ischemia. as part of herpreoperative evaluation , she underwent a stress mibi which showedanterolateral , apical , and inferoposterior ischemia consistent withthree-vessel disease or left main disease. she does reportintermittent chest pressure and shortness of breath at rest andwith mild exertion over the past few years , increasing in the last threemonths. she also reports two-pillow orthopnea and pmd. giventhese findings , the patient underwent cardiac catheterization on6/11/04 as well as evaluation for celiac , sma and ima.catheterization showed 40% left main lesion. otherwise , patentcoronary artery.past medical history:includes diabetes with a hemoglobin a1c of 5.7 in 9/15 ,hypertension , question of copd , depression , coronary arterydisease with an echo showing an ef of 45% on baseline inferiorhypokinesis.medications:lasix , atenolol , bupropion , fosamax , metformin , and lisinopril.she has no known drug allergies.on physical exam , the patient was afebrile with a heart rate of72 , blood pressure of 132/61 , respiratory rate 20 , with an o2saturation of 93% on room air. cardiovascular exam wasremarkable for a regular heart rate with a normal s1 and s2.lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. abdominal exam wasremarkable for quiet by all sounds. no tenderness and nodistention. extremities had no edema , 2+ dorsalis pedis pulsesbilaterally.abdominal angiography showed patent celiac sma and ima.there was enhanced vascularity in the definitive or slidingflexure but no embolic or angiographic cut off. the patient wastreated with ng tube to suction which improved his symptomsalthough she cotinued to have.lab data: remarkable for negative cardiac enzymes x3. calciumand magnesium , and potassium were repleted as needed. ekg wasunchanged with normal sinus rhythm with occasional pvcs.remainder of hospital course:1. cardiovascular: the patient was started on mild lasix diuresis forshortness of breath with slight improvement in symptoms.echocardiogram showed an ejection fracture of 50% with thickaortic valve , thick mitral valve with trace mr , trace tr andhypokinesis. there is severe baseline anteroseptaldistal-lateral apical hypokinesis and base posterior wall ismildly hyperkinetic. compared to report from 7/17 , lvfunction appeared slightly worse. she was continued on aspirin ,ace inhibitor , beta-blocker , statin. she was mainly in normalsinus rhythm but due to recent paroxysmal atrial fibrillationwith rapid ventricular rate , she remained under rate control withbeta-blockers.2. gi: the patient was n.p.o. with an ng tube to suction for thefirst several days of her admission with resolution of nausea andvomiting with continued diarrhea. her diet was advanced toclears and then a low-residue diet , which she toleratedwell. her workup for chronic diarrhea included c. diff. , stoolcultures , fecal leukocytes , fecal fat , tsh , esr , ana , which wereall negative. celiac sprue serologies were also sent and werepending upon discharge. at this point , gi was consulted and thepatient underwent a colonoscopy and egd. colonoscopy showeddiverticula in the rectus sigmoid. there is overlying erythemaover the splenic flexure with shallow erosions suggestive ofischemic colitis. random biopsies were taken to rule outmicroscopic colitis. egd was unremarkable. biopsies wereobtained and are pending to rule out h. pylori. colonoscopy andegd biopsies should be followed up as an outpatient. likelyetiology secondary to microscopic ischemia secondary tomalabsorption of celiac sprue.:3. infectious diseases: she completed a six-day course ofampicillin , levofloxacin , and flagyl. on 6/11/04 , the patientremained c. diff negative during the hospitalization.4. pulmonary: shortness of breath likely secondary to pulmonaryprocess or underlying pulmonary disease in light of normal heartfunction which should be followed up as an outpatient.5. endocrine: metformin was held during the hospitalizationsecondary to contrast administration. she remained on a regularinsulin sliding scale with adequate blood sugar control.6. renal: the patient was hydrated , pre and post di-loads withunremarkable course of renal function.7. prophylaxis: the patient was maintained on subcu heparin andpepcid.the patient was stable , tolerating p.o. intake and p.o. meds.she was discharged to rehab and will follow up with her primarycare physician and with cardiology and gi.escription document: 9-9509837 emssten teldictated by: chancy , harlandattending: chirco , alexdictation id 9403542d: 8/23/04t: 8/23/04