record #16732679322265 | vh | 26822057 | | 823970 | 4/25/1996 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 3/2/1996 report status: signeddischarge date: 6/29/1996discharge diagnosis: idiopathic hypertrophy subaortic stenosis.related diagnoses: 1 ) insulin dependent diabetes mellitus.2 ) syncope.history of present illness: patient is a 79 year old russianspeaking female who had had a historyof exertional chest pain and no previous documented coronary arterydisease. in august 1995 , patient was admitted to penle hospital for symptomatic bradycardia. she ruled out for amyocardial infarction at that time. echocardiogram revealed leftventricular hypertrophy and left ventricular cavity obstructionwith systolic outflow tract gradient of 20-30 mm of mercury. injuly 1995 , patient presented to the sumri sondoyle hospital with complaintsof exertional chest pain with onset after one flight of stairs.she was started on atenolol. echocardiogram at that time revealedasymmetric septal hypertrophy , anterior movement of mitral valveduring systole , and peak left ventricular outflow tract gradient of58 mm of mercury. this was consistent with the diagnosis ofidiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis. patient was continuedon atenolol , however , given her history of symptomatic bradycardia ,her dose could not be increased. one week prior to admission , thepatient noted onset of substernal chest pressure described as painin her anterior chest radiating to her jaw. this was usuallyexperienced in the late morning with no obvious relation toexertion usually accompanied by light headedness. on the day ofadmission , patient awoke without pain , however , in the a.m. , sheagain noted onset of substernal chest pressure associated withlight headedness. this lasted for a period of about thirty minutesafter which time she had a syncopal event. the patient fell on herright hip without evidence of head trauma with brief loss ofconsciousness. within seconds , she was awake and conversant. emtwas alerted and she was brought to rit hospitalemergency department for further evaluation and management. shedenied any significant shortness of breath , fever , chills , andsweats.past medical/surgical history: insulin dependent diabetes timestwenty years , status postpancreatectomy , ihss , and angina.current medications: atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d. , nifedipine xl 30 mgp.o. q.d. , lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d. ,aspirin , and 30 units nph insulin q.a.m.allergies: no known drug allergies.family history: no family history of ihss or sudden deathdocumented.social history: patient was originally from the ist. andfreca , formerteacher , married , and lived with husband. therewas no significant use of alcohol or tobacco.physical examination: on admission , patient was a pleasant elderlyfemale in no acute distress. she wasafebrile with a heart rate of 64 , blood pressure 114/68 ,respiratory rate 16 , and oxygen saturation 97% on room air. heent:examination was notable for anisocoria , right pupil status postprevious surgery , and oropharynx clear without lesions. neck:supple without lymphadenopathy , no jugular venous distention ,carotids were without bruits , and firm mobile mass on anteriorneck. lungs: clear to auscultation bilaterally. heart: regularrate and rhythm , s1 , s2 , and iii/vi late systolic murmur best heardat the left lower sternal border. abdomen: benign. extremities:without clubbing , cyanosis , or edema. neurological: examinationwas non-focal.laboratory examination: cbc showed a hematocrit of 43.1 , whiteblood count 8.6 , platelets 160 ,electrolytes within normal limits with a potassium of 4.7 ,bun/creatinine 34/0.9 , liver function tests within normal limits ,inr 1.1 , and ck 68. urinalysis showed a specific gravity of 1.006 ,ph 5.5 , and 1+ bacteria , chest x-ray with evidence of tortuousaorta but no acute pulmonary or cardiac disease , and ecg showed asinus rhythm , left ventricular hypertrophy , early repolarization inv1 to v3 , t wave inversion in lead i , first degree av block ,otherwise with normal intervals , and axis minus 39.hospital course: patient is a 79 year old female with a history ofihss and insulin dependent diabetes who nowpresented with a syncopal episode accompanied by substernal chestpressure. given the patient's history of chest pain , she was ruledout for myocardial infarction with flat ck and cardiac troponin iof 0.0. she was placed on cardiac monitor. she was noted to havenormal sinus rhythm at a rate in the fifties to sixties increasingas high as the nineties with exertion. as a result , the patient'sbeta blocker dose was increased as tolerated with close monitoringfor possible bradycardia. given the likelihood that her symptomscould be related to decreased outflow secondary to ihss , thepacemaker service was consulted. it was felt that the patientwould benefit from placement of a permanent pacemaker which wouldpossibly be therapeutic both for ihss as well as allowing furthertitration of beta blocker for her exertional angina. the procedurewas discussed with the patient and her family in detail and herfamily requested one additional evening to discuss whether or notto proceed with pacemaker placement. she remained on cardiacmonitor and remained asymptomatic throughout her hospital course.clinically , the patient remained stable. she remained on cardiacmonitor given her history of daily episodes of syncope and chestpain over the last week prior to admission. her blood sugar wasfollowed closely with fingersticks q.i.d. and she was replaced withsliding scale regular insulin in addition to her regular nph dose.on 4/18/96 , the patient underwent placement of a permanentpacemaker , mode dddr , via her left axillary vein withoutcomplication. the patient remained stable overnight and placementof pacemaker was confirmed with chest x-ray.disposition: patient is discharged to home in stable condition.she was instructed to notify her medical doctor forany worsening of chest pain , light headedness , or pain at thepacemaker site. in addition , she was instructed to check theincision site for sign of redness as well as fever and she was toldnot to shower for four days status post pacemaker placement.condition on discharge: stable.discharge medications: aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , lisinopril 20 mgp.o. q.d. , lopressor 25 mg p.o. q.8h. , andprocardia xl 30 mg p.o. q.d. she will resume her previous insulindosing.follow-up: patient will follow-up with her primary medical doctor ,dr. retort , and her cardiologist , dr. shorty she willfollow-up , in addition , with dr. orris in the pacemaker clinic inapproximately one month.dictated by: bryce c. looney , m.d. ns02attending: alejandro rodrick cuyler , m.d. qq8de484/3177batch: 40967 index no. oaemuy7mqn d: 9/4/96t: 7/4/96cc: 1. alexis t. dibben , m.d. vp052. darryl m. profancik , m.d. av21[report_end]