528110264 | npmmh | 46787779 | | 737537 | 7/20/1999 12:00:00 am | discharge summary | signed | dis | admission date: 11/13/1999 report status: signeddischarge date: 11/2/1999principal diagnosis: 1. atrial flutter. 2. congestive heartfailure.history of present illness: the patient is a 67-year-old male witha history of congestive heart failureand history of atrial flutter in september of 1998. the patient wasadmitted to cardiology for treatment of atrial flutter andworsening congestive heart failure. the patient initiallypresented to aler hospital in september of 1998 withacute shortness of breath and atrial flutter. chest x-ray at thattime showed congestive heart failure. the patient was initiallyrate controlled with verapamil and digoxin and converted to normalsinus rhythm. however , on digoxin , the patient developedjunctional tachycardia , which reverted back to normal sinus rhythmafter digoxin was discontinued. echocardiogram at that time showedan ejection fraction of 35%. the patient was discharged on 11 of mayin normal sinus rhythm. the patient was discharged on lopressor ,verapamil , aspirin , and coumadin , which was stopped five monthsago. the patient did extremely well after discharge until aboutfive days ago when he ran out of his atenolol , which he had nottaken since then. over the past week , the patient had extremefatigue and dyspnea on exertion , which steadily worsened. today ,the patient was taking out the trash and experienced a few secondsof chest heaviness on the left side , without any radiation. thepatient reported being short of breath , but had no other symptoms.upon trying to the mailbox , the patient was extremely short ofbreath and fell to the ground , but had no loss of consciousness.there was no warning or dizziness. the patient was brought totien medical center emergency department. there , the patient wasnoted to be in atrial flutter at a rate of 150. the patient wasgiven iv lopressor , 5 mg , and his heart rate came down to 106.review of systems: a review of systems was positive for threepillow orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , and increasinglower extremity swelling over the past week. the patient deniedany fever , chills , night sweats , or change in bowel movements.past medical history: past medical history was significant forhigh blood pressure , left ankle and left knee arthritis ,questionable history of gout , gonococcal urethritis ,diverticulosis , elevated cholesterol , and cardiomyopathy withejection fraction of 35% by echocardiogram in september of 1998.allergies: the patient has no known drug allergies. medicationson admission: at the time of admission , the patient was onsimvastatin 10 mg p.o. q. day , amlodipine 5 mg p.o. q. day ,atenolol 25 mg p.o. q. day , which the patient self discontinuedfive days prior to admission , lisinopril 20 mg q. day , aspirin ,b12 , folate , and multivitamins. social history: the patient'ssocial history was significant for tobacco , one pack per day forforty years. the patient quit in february of 1998. alcohol wassignificant for two to three drinks per day , with none sinceseptember of 1998. there was no history of drug use. the patientlives in derdflintvo alone. the patient is a retired social worker.family history: the patient's family history was significant for amother with a myocardial infarction at 60 , brother with myocardialinfarction at 54 , and father who is deceased from cerebrovascularaccident.physical examination: on physical examination , the patient wasafebrile. the heart rate was 115 , bloodpressure 150/100 , and saturation 95% on 2 liters. in general , thepatient was alert and oriented and in no acute distress. heentrevealed the patient to be normocephalic , atraumatic. the pupilswere equal , round and reactive to light. the extraocular movementswere intact. the oropharynx was moist. the neck was supplewithout bruits. the chest was clear to auscultation.cardiovascular examination revealed a 1/6 holosystolic murmur. thepatient was in atrial flutter. the abdominal examination wasbenign. the extremities showed 1+ edema bilaterally. there was noclubbing or cyanosis. electrocardiogram on admission showed atrialflutter at rate of 50 , as well as left axis deviation , right bundlebranch block , left ventricular hypertrophy with qrs widening , oldinferior myocardial infarction , and right bundle branch block.chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly with pulmonary vascular congestion ,consistent with congestive heart failure , and bilateral pleuraleffusions.laboratory data: laboratory data on admission showed sodium 146 ,potassium 4.4 , creatinine 1.2 , white blood cellcount 6.7 , hematocrit 42.5 , ck 95 , and troponin 0.05.hospital course: the patient was admitted to the cardiology floorfor treatment of atrial flutter and congestiveheart failure. the patient was ruled out for myocardialinfarction. it was felt that the patient's worsening congestiveheart failure was likely secondary to his flutter. the patient wasstarted on lasix in addition to being started on a beta blocker.however , the patient remained in atrial flutter with poor ratecontrol. echocardiogram on 7 of september showed an ejection fraction of30-35% with global hypokinesis. of note , also , the patient'sventricular myocardium showed an echo bright appearance consistentwith possible infiltrative disease. on 14 of october , the patientunderwent cardioversion without complications , as he was still inatrial flutter and was not having good rate control. the patientwas successfully cardioverted and remained in sinus rhythmafterwards. however , on 23 of may , the patient was still significantlyshort of breath and hypoxic. this was felt probably likelysecondary to fluid overload , and the patient was started on lasix.however , the patient underwent a vq scan and was ruled out forpulmonary embolism. the patient did well and , on 6 of april , the patientexperienced bilateral lip swelling , consistent with angioedema.the patient's lasix and captopril were discontinued , as it wasunclear which agent had caused this , however , it was most likelythe captopril. this responded well to benadryl. the patient wasstarted on ethacrynic acid and hydralazine for diuresis andafterload reduction. the patient did well on this regimen. on26 of february , the patient was discharged home in stable condition. thepatient was in sinus rhythm and was satting well on room air.medications on discharge: at the time of discharge , the patientwas on albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mginhaled q. 4-6 hours as needed for wheezing , enteric coated aspirin325 mg p.o. q. day , atenolol 25 mg p.o. q. day , edecrin 25 mg p.o.b.i.d. , folate 1 mg p.o. q. day , hydralazine 10 mg p.o. q.i.d. ,simvastatin 10 mg p.o. q.h.s. , amlodipine 5 mg p.o. q. day , andbenadryl 50 mg p.o. q. 6 hours as needed for lip swelling.follow-up: the patient was instructed to follow-up with dr. kotowin one week. disposition: the patient was discharged to home withservices , to be followed by aflintsa mo hendco vna for blood pressure andweight checks q.o.d.dictated by: stanton ruyes , m.d. gy00attending: isiah d. skidmore , m.d. wc6qo309/2308batch: 56108 index no. tcribw1ksh d: 3/17/99t: 8/20/99op5