982186023 | gemc | 68534684 | | 1149989 | 4/6/2006 12:00:00 am | c-diff.colitis | unsigned | dis | admission date: 5/15/2006 report status: unsigneddischarge date: 7/30/2006attending: trentham , del guadalupe mdhistory of present illness: mr. klaja is an 81-year-old gentlemanwhose chief complaint was abdominal pain and diarrhea. he had apast medical history of ischemic cardiomyopathy and recentcomplex medical history including a septic right knee arthritiswith mrsa complicated by a picc line-induced right upper extremitydvt followed by bacteremia with multi-resistant klebsiellapneumoniae , treated with meropenem for 14 days with the courseending on 11/11/2006. the patient presented with left lower quadrant abdominalpain during his last admission 2 weeks ago associated with low-volume mucusdiarrhea , c. diff toxin assay was at that time negative on 1/24abdominal ct showed diverticulosis with stranding of the sigmoid colon.blood cultures grew klebsiella , treated with 14 days of meropenemas previously noted. however , since this discharge , the mildabdominal pain persisted. he continues to have low-grade mucusdiarrhea about 5 times a day , not associated with fever , chillsor anorexia. over the last 2 days prior to this admission , thediarrhea became high volume , still nonbloody and not associatedagain with fever or chills. he was brought into the emergencydepartment at which time , he was afebrile with a blood pressureof 85/49 , heart rate in the 80s , respiratory rate of 20 , o2saturation 93% on room air. at that time , he received volumeresuscitation with 2 liters of iv fluids , stool samples for c.diff assay were sent. he received empiric therapy with p.o.vancomycin. an abdominal ct in the emergency department showedthickening of the sigmoid colon and rectum.past medical history: includes coronary artery disease as notedwith an anterior mi in 2003 , that had complicated to vt arrest ,status post cabg in 2003 that was a left internal mammary arteryto lad with saphenous vein graft to the pta and obtuse marginal.he has had a catheterization in 3/12 that showed patent graftsand drug-eluting stent to the left circumflex. he has chronickidney disease , baseline creatinine between 1.3 and 1.5 ,hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , c. diff colitis in 2003 , bph ,asthma , gerd , status post right upper extremity picc-related dvtand right knee septic arthritis.medications: aspirin 81 mg , plavix 75 mg , coumadin 5 mg , digoxin 0.125 mg ,lasix 49 mg daily , lisinopril 10 mg daily , lopressor 25 mg b.i.d. , zocor 80 mgdaily , flomax 0.4 mg daily and flovent 110 mcg b.i.d.allergies: penicillin which caused hives and swelling.social history: he previously a smoker. he does not drink. heis a nursing home resident.family history: significant for coronary artery disease , twobrothers who had coronary artery disease in their 60s. no familyhistory of cancer.physical examination: vitals as previous noted , blood pressurein the 80s/49 , heart rate 80 , regular , respiratory rate 20 , o2saturation 93% on room air. patient was afebrile. pertinentphysical findings included: pulmonary: he had a prolongedexpiratory phase , but no crackles. cardiovascular: distant heartsounds , regular rate and rhythm. normal s1 and s2. no rubs orgallops. systolic ejection or murmur 3/6 at the left lowersternal border. abdomen: obese , distended abdomen , left lowerquadrant tenderness to palpation. no rebound at this time.extremities are warm , 2+ pulses with 1+ bilateral lower extremityedema to the shins. neurologic: alert and oriented x3 , cranialnerves grossly intact , no abnormalities.admission abdominal ct showed bowel wall thickening inthe descending sigmoid colon and rectum. chest x-ray showedleft-sided pleural effusion , atelectasis in the left lower lobe.laboratory data: labs were significant for a white count of15.7 , hematocrit of 35.5 and inr of 3.2. electrolytes werenormal.patient was initially admitted to the micu for hypertension andinfectious etiology. he was stabilized there and transferred tothe floor within a few days.hospital course:1. colitis , presumed infectious etiology , descending and sigmoidcolon. colitis was worse over the last month , associated withdiarrhea. abdominal ct is consistent with an infectiousinflammatory bowel process. given history of c. diff colitis , c.diff was the most likely infectious etiology , but others werepossible. ischemic colitis was considered secondary to lowforward flow , given patient's cardiomyopathy and low ejectionfraction of 20% to 35% and he also got a pattern of inflammatorycolitis or nonspecific colitis. stool samples were sent for a c.diff toxin and assay and all were negative x at least 3 samples.stool cultures were sent and did not grow anything out duringadmission. empiric treatment was started with p.o. vancomycin.patient's abdominal pain continued to improve and completelyresolved. by discharge , patient remained afebrile and whiteblood cell count decreased. advance patient's diet as toleratedand by discharge the patient was up to soft solids. we addedlactobacillus p.o. for probiotics and patient also had flex sigtwo days before discharge , showing resolving inflammationconsistent with colitis of inflammatory etiology. the flex sigdid not change his management. we did discharge the patient on a2-week course p.o. vancomycin alone.2. coronary artery disease. patient had no evidence for acutecoronary syndrome on admission. we continued his aspirin ,plavix , statin and beta-blocker. patient had no ischemic issuesor coronary artery disease issues during his admission.3. chf. patient has previous ef noted at 20% to 35% , so agentle hydration therapy at first in the micu for hypertensionand then as patient's blood pressure increased , was able torestart patient's lasix dose in order to diurese all of the extrafluid gained during the rehydration therapy , was restarted on thelasix 40 mg p.o. daily , his daily dose at home. also consideredrestarting lisinopril , but deferred discharge to outpatientfollow up with primary care physician for restart of lisinopril ,once patient is fully recovered.4. chronic kidney disease. patient had a baseline of creatinine1.2 to 1.5 and he came into the hospital with a creatinine of 1.0.the patient was below baseline and remained below baseline duringadmission. he did not have any renal issues.5. hematology. patient has a history a line-induced dvt , hasbeen treated with coumadin , with no definitive evidence as to howalong patient should be treated , given that the dvt was lineinduced. coumadin was therapeutic on admission , becamesupertherapeutic in the micu. held coumadin until inr fell below3 , restarted coumadin afterwards at 6 mg p.o. daily , patient'snormal dose. patient was therapeutic on discharge. will followup with primary care physician for coumadin monitoring.6. nutrition. patient was in the micu and was n.p.o. givenabdominal pain and colitis. when transferred to floor , wasstarted on liquid diet and advanced to soft solid diet. bydischarge , the patient did not have abdominal pain and most ofthe diarrhea had resolved.procedures performed: the patient had a flexible sigmoidoscopyduring the admission that showed colitis consistent withinflammatory etiology.diagnosis: patient had repeated negative c. diff toxin assays ,but colitis was presumed to be c. diff and given history , couldhave been other infectious or inflammatory etiologies. patientcontinued to improve on vancomycin and thus was discharged withpresumed c. diff colitis diagnosis.discharge medications: included aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , plavix75 mg p.o. daily , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. daily , nexium 20 mg p.o.daily , flovent 110 mcg inhale b.i.d. , lasix 40 mg p.o. daily ,lactobacillus 2 tabs p.o. t.i.d. , metoprolol 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,simvastatin 80 mg p.o. at bed time , flomax 0.4 mg p.o. everyevening , vancomycin 250 mg p.o. every 6 hours x8 days atdischarge and coumadin 5 mg p.o. every evening.patient had to follow up with primary care physician , setup for 2to 3 weeks after discharge.escription document: 3-2394135 hffocusdictated by: sollock , sheltonattending: vallejos , jaime terrancedictation id 6308102d: 10/27/06t: 4/24/06