550098128 | iagh | 18918213 | | 5000253 | 8/4/2003 12:00:00 am | congestive heart failure | signed | dis | admission date: 3/24/2003 report status: signeddischarge date: 5/30/2003admit diagnoses: 1. heart failure.2. diabetes mellitus.3. history of cerebrovascular accident.4. asthma.history of present illness: the patient is a 54 year-old womanwith history of dilated cardiomyopathyand estimated ejection fraction of 35 to 40% who presented withlower extremity edema , weakness , fatigue , and syncopal episodes x2. at baseline the patient states that she is able to walk andperform her activities of daily living without symptoms of heartfailure. per patient , about five days prior to admission , shebegan to notice increasing lower extremity edema , rapidly spreadingfrom her calves up to her thighs. she also noted symptoms ofweakness and fatigue. on 9/29/03 the patient reported two syncopalepisodes- the first of which was preceded by dizziness after whichshe lost consciousness after lying down. she awoke and walked toher apartment where she apparently lost consciousness a second timealthough she does not remember having any prodromal symptoms priorto the second episode. the patient was found by her neighbor andtaken to the niry hospital .  at labi straubll hospital ,the patient was treated for heart failure with diuresis with ivlasix. an echocardiogram at the malvfi hospital showed an ejectionfraction of 10 to 15% , 4+ mitral regurgitation , 3+ tricuspidregurgitation. the patient ruled out for myocardial infarction andecg showed no ischemic changes. the patient did have one run of11-beat non-sustained ventricular tachycardia. liver functiontests were noted to be elevated. her hepatitis panel wasreportedly negative. the patient was transferred from got centerto towhiddle amentcon pal medical center as her primary care physician andcardiologist are at oten memorial hospital .past medical history: hypotension. history of cerebrovascularaccident. type ii diabetes mellitus.asthma. dilated cardiomyopathy.medications: on transfer , albuterol inhaler , flovent inhalers ,lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. , folate 1 mg p.o. q.d. ,reglan 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. with meals , colace , iron , captopril 50 mgp.o. t.i.d. , coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.d. , nph 35 units q.a.m. andq.p.m. , humalog sliding scale , digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q.d. , andalbuterol nebulizers p.r.n.laboratory data: creatinine 1.3. wbc normal. tsh was normal at2.1 , esr 8. ecg showed sinus rhythm , left atrialenlargement , left ventricular hypertrophy , no ischemic changes.hospital course: cardiovascular: the patient has a dilatedcardiomyopathy and was admitted with volumeoverload. the patient was diuresed with iv lasix throughout herhospital course with successful diuresis of 1 to 2 liters of fluidper day. an echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 20 to25% , severe global hypokinesis , moderate mitral regurgitation , andmoderate tricuspid regurgitation. right and left heartcatheterization was performed. the right heart catheterizationshowed the following: right atrial pressure was 8 , rightventricular pressure 35/5 , pa pressure 37/17 , and wedge pressure of15. the left heart catheterization showed two vessel coronaryartery disease , no obstructive lesions. the patient showed markedclinical improvement with diuresis with iv lasix. prior todischarge the lasix was changed from iv to p.o. and the patient wasstable on p.o. regimen of lasix prior to discharge. the left heartcatheterization , as noted above showed moderate coronary arterydisease. the patient was continued on statin for this reason. thepatient had had two syncopal episodes prior to admission along witha run of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia at the outsidehospital. this raised the concern along with her low ejectionfraction that she could be having arrhythmias causing syncope. ontelemetry during this admission , the patient was noted to haveadditional runs of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia along withan episode of complete heart block. the electrophysiology servicewas consulted and placed an icd and pacer on 11/25/03 .  thisprocedure was well tolerated.renal: the patient was noted to have low albumin on admission andprotein in her urine , concerning for nephrotic syndrome. renalconsult was obtained. the 24-hour urine was collected. renalultrasound was negative for hydrosis or renal vein thrombosis. anspep and upep were sent which are pending at the time of thisdictation. the renal consult felt that the diabetes mellitus wasthe likely explanation for the protein wasting in the urine. thepatient was continued on an ace inhibitor.infectious disease: the patient was noted to have a localized areaof infection at the area of old iv site on admission. she wasstarted on p.o. dicloxacillin to treat this infection. surgery wasconsulted and ruled out septic thrombophlebitis.hematology: the patient was taken off coumadin on admission butwas continued on heparin for anticoagulation. the coumadin wasrestarted after the pacer and icd were placed.endocrine: the patient was treated on a regimen of lentes andinsulin sliding scale. her blood sugars were stable on thisregimen.disposition: discharge medications: the patient will planned tobe discharged on the following medications:dicloxacillin 500 mg p.o. q.i.d. , zocor 20 mg p.o. q.hs. , lentes 40units subcu q.hs. , lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. , lasix 80 mg p.o.b.i.d. , lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q.d. , and keflex 25 mg p.o. q.i.d.follow-up: she will follow-up with her primary care physician , dr.avary . she will follow-up with her cardiologist , dr. dobies , on3/3/03 .  she will have a repeat echocardiogram in july toreassess her ejection fraction and valvular disease.dictated by: rodrick j. zwolinski , m.d. qz35attending: jamie n. abraham , m.d. an84  xc209/210711batch: 1029 index no. xnjr9z1ghw d: 11/24/03t: 11/24/03